
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 73359 ***





                            [Illustration:

                               _Vol. V._

                               _of the_

                         Botanists Repository

                             _Comprising,
                         Colour’d Engravings_

                                  of

                         _New and Rare Plants_

                                 ONLY

                    With Botanical Descriptions &c.

                                 _in_

                         _Latin and English_,

                              _after the_

                            Linnæan System.

                                 _by_

                             _H. Andrews_

                   _Botanical Printer Engraver &c._

                               Mo. Bot.

                                 1904.
                                   ]




PLATE CCLXXXIX.

PROTEA CORDATA.

_Heart-shape-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx, proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM four-cleft or four petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the ends. Cup, proper, none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis cordatis.

Protea with heart-shaped leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Floret before the petals have separated, natural
size.
2. The same, magnified, after the bursting of the petals.
3. The Pointal and Seed-bud, natural size.


The Heart-shape-leaved Protea was introduced to Britain in the year
1792, from the Cape of Good Hope, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy; at whose
nursery it is now, this present month of March, 1803, in flower for the
first time in this country. The plant is only found on the mountains of
that part of the Cape called Hottentots Holland; the stem, in its native
state, laying on the ground, seldom more than a foot in length, and the
flowers proceeding from it near its base. It is rather delicate, should
be kept in a very airy part of the green-house, and planted in a light
loamy soil. It is propagated by cuttings, made in the month of April,
and kept under a common hand-glass, the pot being plunged in a shady
border.

Of this Protea there is a good figure in Thunberg’s _Dissertatio de
Protea_, Upsal, quarto edition, 1781, Plate 5, fig. 1.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXC.

APONOGETON DISTACHYON.

_Broad-leaved Aponogeton._


CLASS XI. ORDER IV.

_DODECANDRIA TETRAGYNIA._ Twelve Chives. Four Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus, nisi squama spathacea externum latus floris cingens,
simplex, sessilis, ovata, obtusa, integra, erecta, glabra, colorata.

COROLLA nulla.

STAMINA. Filamenta undecim ad novemdecim, superioribus floribus
pauciora, intra spatham et capsulas inserta, subulata, glabra, alba,
spatha multoties breviora. Antheræ erectæ, bifidæ.

PISTILLA. Germina plerumque quatuor, raro tria seu quinque. Styli nulli.
Stigmata subulata, incurvata.

PERICARPIUM. Capsulæ quatuor, rarius tres seu quinque, ovatæ,
subulato-acutæ, exteriore latere gibbæ, interiore planæ, glabræ,
unilocularis.

SEMINA, in quacumque capsula tria, basi capsula affixa, sessilia,
obovata, obtusissima, sub-compressa, glabra.

EMPALEMENT none, except a sheathing scale surrounding the outer side of
the flower, simple, sitting close, egg-shaped, obtuse, intire, upright,
smooth, coloured.

BLOSSOM none.

CHIVES. Threads eleven to nineteen, in the upper flowers fewer, inserted
between the spathe and the capsules, awl-shaped, smooth, white, much
shorter than the spathe. Tips upright, two-cleft.

POINTALS. Seed-buds often four, seldom three or five. Shafts none.
Summits awl-shaped, turned inwards.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsules four, seldom three or five, egg-shaped, pointed,
awl-shaped, unequally swelled on the outside, flat on the inner,
smoothed, one-celled.

SEEDS in each capsule three, fixed to the base of it, sitting close,
inversely egg-shaped, very blunt, rather flattish, smooth.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Aponogeton spica bifida; foliis eliptico-lanceolatis, natantibus;
bracteis integris; floribus polyandris.

Aponogeton with a two-branched spike; leaves eliptically lance-shaped,
floating; floral leaves entire; flowers with many chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Floret, with its floral leaf, magnified.

2. The Seed-buds and Summits, magnified.


This Genus of Plants in the Catalogue of the Kew Garden, is placed to
the Class Heptandria, and perhaps, with as much propriety as where it
now stands in Thunberg, Schreber, &c. for the number of chives in almost
every floret differs in this, and all the other species, from six to
twenty. It is there said to have been introduced to us in 1788 from the
Cape of Good Hope by Mr. F. Masson. It is found near Cape Town in most
of the brooks; is very sweet scented, and flowers from April till
November. As an aquatic it is very desirable for those who cultivate
those plants, the fragrance of the flowers being nearly equal to our
Nymphæa alba, or White Water Lily; and this, added to the contrasted
effect of the deep brown antheræ upon the pure white floral leaves,
which indeed have the appearance of blossoms, give the whole an
indescribable trait of beauty, peculiar to itself. Our figure was taken
from a plant in the Hibbertian collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCI.

SENECIO PSEUDO-CHINA.

_China-root Groundsel._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Communis calyculatus, conicus, truncatus; squamis subulatis,
plurimis, in cylindrum superne contractum, parallelis, contiguis,
æqualibus, paucioribus basin imbricatim tegentibus, apicibus emortuis.

COROLLA. Composita, calyce altior; Corullulæ hermaphroditæ tubulosæ,
numerosæ in disco; Femineæ ligulatæ in radio (si quæ adsint).

_Propria_ hermaphroditi infundibuliformis; limbo reflexo, quinquefido.

_Femineis_ (si quæ) oblonga, obsolete tridentata.

STAMINA. Hermaphroditis; filamenta quinque, capillaria, minima. Anthera
cylindracea, tubulosa.

PISTILLUM utrisque; germen ovatum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine
staminum. Stigmata duo, oblonga, revoluta.

PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx conico-connivens.

SEMINA hermaphroditis solitaria, ovata. Pappus crinitus, longus.
Femineis similima hermaphroditis.

RECEPTACULUM nudum, planum.

EMPALEMENT. Common, double, conical, appearing cut off; scales
awl-shaped, numerous, contracted above into a cylinder, parallel,
contiguous, equal, the base tiled by a few scales, dead at the ends.

BLOSSOM. Compound, taller than the cup; Hermaphrodite florets tubular,
numerous in the disk; Female florets (if there are any) tongue-shaped in
the circumference.

_Hermaphrodite_ florets funnel shaped, border reflexed, five-cleft.

_Female florets_ (if any) oblong, obscurely three-toothed.

CHIVES. Of the hermaphrodite florets; five threads, hair-like, very
small. Tips forming a tubular cylinder.

POINTAL in either; Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, the length
of the chives. Summits two, oblong, rolled back.

SEED-VESSEL none. Empalement closing into a cone.

SEEDS of hermaphrodite florets solitary, egg-shaped. Feather hairy,
long. Females like the hermaphrodites.

RECEPTACLE naked, flat.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Senecio foliis sinuatis, integris, discoloribus; corollis purpureis;
radice tuberosa.

Groundsel with obtusely indented leaves entire and two-coloured;
blossoms purple; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.

2. A Female floret, of the ray or circumference.

3. A Pointal of the female floret magnified.

4. An Hermaphrodite floret of the disk or centre.

5. The Chives and Pointal of an Hermaphrodite floret, magnified.

The roots of this plant were received at the same time with the double
Camellias, China Roses, &c. from China, by the late J. Slater, Esq. of
Laytonstone, Essex; we have, nevertheless, good reason to believe it was
known formerly in our gardens; but has been certainly lost, for many
years, to us. It is said to have been cultivated by James Sherrard, M.
D. in 1732, as copied from Dellinens’s Hortus Elthamensis, into the Kew
Catalogue. Miller speaks of it as flowering freely, and perfecting its
seeds; whereas, in the Hort. Kew. they omit its time of flowering,
which, had it ever flowered there, would certainly have been noted. Our
drawing was taken in the month of July last year, 1802, from a plant in
the Hibbertian Collection, the first and only time we have ever seen it
flower in England. It is propagated by the roots, which are large and
fleshy; the plant is herbaceous, and should have but little water during
the winter months, as the roots are very subject to rot; they are
imported from India as a drug, under the name of China-root. Must be
kept in the hot-house, and planted in rich earth.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCII.

GERANIUM UNDULATUM.

_Waved-flowered Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis lanceolatis ciliatis, sub-integris; petalis
sub-æqualibus, sub-linearibus, undulatis; floribus umbellatis,
pentandris; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with lance-shaped flowers, fringed nearly intire; petals almost
equal, nearly linear, waved; flowers grow in umbels, five fertile
chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, to shew its tubular structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The Chives, magnified and cut open.

4. The Pointal and Seed bud, magnified.

This tuberous rooted Geranium, from the Cape of Good Hope, has some
affinity with the G. spathulatum, as to the shape of the leaves; but the
whole habit of the plant is so totally different, that we could not,
with any degree of propriety, consider it as a variety of that species.
Our figure was taken from a plant in the Hibbertian collection, to which
it was introduced in the year 1800, by Mr. Niven. It flowers in June,
and may be propagated by the root. The treatment is the same as that
required for the rest, of this division, of the Genus.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCIII.

LACHNÆA PURPUREA.

_Purple-flowered Lachnæa._


CLASS VIII. ORDER I.

_OCTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Eight Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus. Corolla quadrifida; limbo inæquali. Semen unum,
sub-baccatum.

CUP none. Blossom four-cleft; border unequal. One seed, like a berry.

See LACHNÆA ERIOCEPHALA, Pl. CIV. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lachnæa capitulis solitariis; corollis glabris, purpureis; foliis
trigonis, obtusis, quadrifariam imbricatis.

Lachnæa with solitary heads of flowers; blossoms smooth, purple; leaves
three-sided, obtuse, tiled in four-rows.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. One of the floral Leaves, which surround the head of flowers at the
base.

2. A Flower complete.

3. A Blossom cut open, the lower part cut off, to shew the insertion of
the Chives at the mouth.

4. The Pointal, natural size.

5. The same magnified.

This most singular genus of plants, in external appearance so resembling
passerina, yet so perfectly distinct in the parts of fructification, is
certainly amongst the handsomest of the natural order in which it ranks.
The long slender chives which extend nearly to the length of the border
of the blossom, independent of the singular retrofraction of one of its
segments, give it a character, we think, decidedly sufficient on which
to have formed the Genus. This is the third species known; it was
introduced to the Hibbertian collection, in 1800, by Mr. Niven, from the
Cape of Good Hope. It is a very delicate plant, subject to be destroyed
by damps, flowers in July, and may be increased by cuttings. It thrives
best in a mixture of light sand and loam.

Thunberg, in his Prod. Plant. Cap. has referred the whole genus to
Passerina.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCIV.

PROTEA CANDICANS.

_Hoary-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius, nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft, or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the point. Cup, proper, none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis apicibus tridentatis, eliptico-lanceolatis, obliquis,
candidissimis; capitulis terminalibus; calyx imbricatus, squamis acutis;
corollis luteis.

Protea with leaves three-toothed at the ends, eliptically-lance-shaped,
oblique and very hoary; heads of flowers terminal; cup tiled, scales
pointed, blossoms yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Floret, the petals separated, natural size.

2. One of the Petals magnified.

3. The Pointal, and Seed-bud, natural size, the Summit detached,
magnified.

4. The Empalement, natural size.

Our present plant is one of the rarest Proteas at this time in England;
as, we believe, there has never been but one importation of the seeds
from the Cape, and no one species of this numerous genus is with more
difficulty propagated by cuttings. Its lower leaves are apt to suffer
much from damps in winter; in consequence, the stem becomes bare till
near the top; the plant grows about three feet high, and flowers in
August, or September. Our figure was taken from the Hibbertian
collection, where it flowered, in 1802, for the first time in Britain.
We owe its introduction to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, about
the year 1790. We have our doubts of this plant being the P. tomentosa
of Thunberg; for although he, in his description of that species, comes
nigh many of the characters of P. candicans, yet his determining the
leaves to be linear, and downy, and our having drawings, taken from two
other species, approaching this in habit, yet nigher affined to P.
tomentosa, we have retained his specific title for one of them, the
other yet unnamed; which will both be given in due course.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCV.

PASSIFLORA AURANTIA.

_Norfolk Island Passion-Flower._


CLASS XX. ORDER IV.

_GYNANDRIA PENTANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Five Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

TRIGYNA. Calyx 5-phyllus. Petala 5. Nectarium corona. Bacca pedicellata.

THREE styles. Cup 5-leaved. Petals 5. Honey-cup forming a crown. Berry
standing on a foot-stalk.

See Pl. CCVII. PASSIFLORA MALIFORMIS. Vol. IV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Passiflora foliis trilobis, lobis oblongis obtusis, medio longiore;
petiolis biglandulosis; nectario cylindraceo, denticulato; corolla
aurantia.

Passion-Flower with three-lobed leaves; lobes oblong, obtuse, the middle
one the longest; foot-stalks with two glands; honey-cup cylindrical and
toothletted; blossom orange-coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Exhibits the half of a flower as cut perpendicularly through the
middle, with the whole of the Pointal and Chives in their place.


This species of Passion Flower, from Norfolk Island, was introduced to
Britain in the year 1792, and was first raised, from seeds, at the
Hammersmith Nursery. It is a greenhouse plant, loving heat and drought,
thrives in a light sandy soil, and is readily increased by cuttings;
which should be placed in the heat of the bark-bed in the hothouse, or
cucumber hot-bed, in the month of April.

In the young state of the plant, the leaves are less harsh, appear
rather scolloped than lobed, and much resemble in shape those of the
Maiden-hair Fern, or Adiantum Capillus-veneris; whence the trivial name,
_adiantifolia_, which it bears in most collections. But, as there can be
no doubt of our present plant being that designed by Forster, in his
Prod. flor. insul. austral. No. 326; of Cavanilles in his Dissertationes
classis Monadelphiæ, Diss. 10. p. 457; and as lastly quoted by
Willdenow, in his new Sp. Plant. Tom. 3, Part 1, p. 620; we have,
without hesitation, adopted the specific title it there bears. As an
addition to the very few handsome climbing plants fit to decorate the
trellis-work of our modern greenhouses, or conservatories, this plant
must be considered as a great acquisition; as the growth is rapid, the
foliage of a fine green, and the flowering abundant.

Our figure was taken from a plant in the conservatory of the Hibbertian
collection, Clapham common.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCVI.

LACHENALIA ROSEA.

_Rose-coloured Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-partita, infera; petalis tribus interioribus longioribus.
Stamina erecta. Capsula subovata, trialata. Semina globosa.

BLOSSOM 6-divided, beneath; the three inner petals the longest. Chives
erect. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-winged. Seeds globular.

See LACHENALIA PENDULA, Pl. XLI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lachenalia foliis binis, lanceolato-linearibus, obtusis; petalis
interioribus longioribus; scapo lævi filiforme; corollis roseis.

Lachenalia with two leaves between, lance and linear-shaped, obtuse; the
inner petals the longest; flower-stem smooth and thread-shaped; blossoms
rose-coloured.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom cut open, shewn from the inside, the Chives in their place.

2. The same, shewn from the outside.

3. The Seed-bud and Pointal, natural size.

This plant we believe to be perfectly new to Britain, and in no other
collection, at present, than that of G. Hibbert, Esq. Clapham; where the
drawing of our figure was taken in May, 1802; and to which it had been
added, the preceding year, by Mr. Niven, from the Cape of Good Hope.

It is a tender bulb, and rather impatient of moisture; increases by the
bulb; should not be removed from its pot but to give it fresh earth, and
is fond of a light, loamy soil. It is without scent.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCVII.

NYMPHÆA ODORATA.

_Sweet-scented Water-Lily._


CLASS XIII. ORDER I.

_POLIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Many Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX 4, 5, seu 6-phyllus. Corolla polypetala. Bacca multi-locularis,
truncata.

Cup 4, 5, or 6-leaved. Blossom many petals. Berry many-celled, appearing
cut off at top.

See NYMPHÆA CÆRULEA, Pl. CXCVII. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Nymphæa foliis subrotundis, integris emarginatis, lobis divaricatis,
obtusissimis, margine parum incurvatis; calyce tetraphyllo; flore albo.

Water Lily with almost round leaves, entire, and notched at the end;
lobes straddling, very obtuse, and turned up slightly at the edge; cup
four-leaved; flower white.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Chive.

2. The Seed-bud and Summits.

3. The Seed-bud cut transversely.

This species of Water-Lily we should consider rather as a variety, than
as a distinct species; it has every character of our common white
Water-Lily, except the size and hardiness; it has the same powerful
fragrance, but will not stand the severity of our winters. It is a
native of Carolina and Virginia, North America; was introduced to us in
the year 1786, by William Hamilton, Esq. of Philadelphia, and flowers
during the summer months, if kept in the hot-house. Requires the same
treatment as the blue species from the Cape of Good Hope. May be
increased from the seed, or from the root. Our drawing was taken from a
plant in the Clapham collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCVIII.

ANTHERICUM COSTATUM.

_Ribbed-leaved Anthericum._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX, nullus.

COROLLA. Petala sex, oblonga, obtusa, patentissima.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, erecta. Antheræ parvæ, incumbentes,
quadrisulcæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen obsolete trigonum. Stylus simplex, longitudine
staminum. Stigma obtusum, trigonum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, glabra, trisulca, trilocularis, trivalvis.

SEMINA numerosa, angulata.

EMPALEMENT. none.

BLOSSOM. Six petals, oblong, blunt, spreading very much.

CHIVES. Six threads, awl-shaped, upright. Tips small, laying on the
threads, four-furrowed.

POINTAL. Seed-bud bluntly three-sided. Shaft simple, the length of the
chives. Summit blunt, and three-cornered.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, smooth, three-furrowed, three-valved.

SEEDS numerous, angulated.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Anthericum foliis hirsutis, planis, costatis, lineari-ensiformibus,
supra medium reflexis; scapo simplici, glabro; floribus albis; radice
bulboso.

Anthericum with hairy, flat, leaves, ribbed, linearly sword-shaped,
turned back from the middle; flower-stem simple, smooth; flowers white,
root bulbous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Chives and Pointal, magnified.

2. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.

3. The half of the Seed-bud cut transversely, magnified.

It is much to be lamented that we, as yet, have not discovered a mode of
treatment by which many of the species or Albuca, Ornithogalum,
Anthericum, &c. from the Cape, might be induced to flower with us, after
the first year from their importation; since many of them never produce
more than a few leaves afterwards; and this plant, we fear, is amongst
the number. It makes a very handsome and sweet bunch of flowers, which
have considerable duration, not less than a month from first expansion.
We can say little as to the propagation and culture; as it has not as
yet increased, nor has it produced any flowers since our drawing was
made, in August 1801. We think it is only in the Hibbertian Collection,
to which it was introduced by Mr. Niven, in 1800, from the Cape of Good
Hope.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCXCIX.

LACHENALIA REFLEXA.

_Reflexed-flowered Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives, One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-partita, infera; petalis tribus interioribus longioribus.
Stamina erecta. Capsula subovata, trialata. Semina globosa.

BLOSSOM 6-divided, beneath; the three inner petals the longest. Chives
erect. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-winged. Seeds globular.

See LACHENALIA PENDULA, Pl. XLI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lachenalia foliis ovato-lanceolatis, plurimis; petalis equalibus,
acutis, reflexis, rubro punctatis; germine pedicillato, subgloboso.

Lachenalia with leaves between egg and lance-shaped, numerous; petals
equal, pointed, reflexed, and dotted with red spots; seed-bud with a
foot-stalk, and roundish.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. One of the Petals, which are divided to the base, with its chive.

2. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, natural size.

3. The same, magnified.

This curious Lachenalia, for such it must be considered, though in many
parts widely different from congeners, is a native of the Cape of Good
Hope, and was received from thence in the year 1798, by J. Vere, Esq. of
Kensington Gore; in whose collection, we believe, it is only to be
found, and where our drawing was taken in the month of June 1801. It is
a tender bulb, and requires a considerable degree of heat to make it
flower, and does not appear to have any tendency to increase, although,
Mr. Anderson informs us, he has tried it in various situations and soils
to that end.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCC.

GERANIUM OXALIDIFOLIUM.

_Wood-Sorrel-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis ternatis, foliolis ovatis, obtusis, ciliatis; floribus
pentandris; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with leaves composed of three leaflets, which are egg-shaped,
obtuse, and fringed; flowers with five fertile chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement of a flower cut open, to shew its tubular structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The Chives spread open, magnified.

4. The Pointal, natural size.

5. The same, magnified.

The species of Geranium here figured, is of the same character, in all
points of view, as most of the tuberous species lately introduced from
the Cape by G. Hibbert, Esq. in whose collection, at Clapham, it is only
to be found, at present; and where our drawing was taken, in July 1802.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCI.

PROTEA GRANDIFLORA. _Var. foliis undulatis._

_Large-flowered Protea._ _Waved-leaved Var._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft, or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the end. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis lanceolatis glaberrimis, utrinque acuminatis, marginibus
subcallosis, parum undulatis; squamæ calycinæ lanceolatæ erectæ,
interiores pilis longissimis nigris cristitatæ.

Protea with lance-shaped leaves, smooth, tapered to both ends, rather
thickened at the edges, and a little waved; the scales of the empalement
are lance-shaped and upright, the inner ones crested, with very long
black hairs.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower complete, as it stands on the receptacle of the common cup.

2. The same, with one of the petals detached, to shew the situation of
the chives near the ends.

3. The Pointal, complete.

The round tufts of long hair which terminate the inner scales of the
cup, in this Protea, and its varieties, constitute its principal,
distinguishing specific character from P. speciosa; whose scales are
fringed at the summits, and to which our present plant is nearest
allied. It is, without doubt, one of the handsomest of this fine tribe
of plants; not only in the beauty of the blossom, but for its general
habit; as it does not grow above three feet high, very bushy, and
producing its flowers at the age of three or four years. It is increased
by cuttings only, as are most of the species of this extensive genus,
none of them perfecting their seeds in this climate, or producing roots
by laying the branches. Our drawing was made from a plant in the
Hibbertian collection, to which it was introduced in 1800, by Mr. Niven,
from the Cape of Good Hope, in the month of May, 1802.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCII.

LACHENALIA FRAGRANS.

_Sweet-scented Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, infera; petalis tribus interioribus longioribus.
Stamina erecta. Capsula subovata trialata. Semina globosa.

BLOSSOM six petals, beneath; the three inner petals the longest. Chives
erect. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-winged. Seeds globular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lachenalia foliis geminis, ovato-oblongis, humi adpressis; corollis
campanulatis pedunculatis horizontalibus; petalis sub-æqualibus; scapo
erecto.

Lachenalia with one pair of leaves, oblong-egg-shaped, laying on the
ground; blossoms bell shaped with foot-stalks, growing horizontally;
petals nearly equal; flower-stem upright.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom with the Chives in their place, one of the tips detached
and magnified.

2. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit.

3. The same, magnified.

4. The Seed-bud, cut transversely, magnified.

The extreme fragrance of this plant, amply compensates for its want of
beauty; it retains its sweetness through the whole period of its
flowering, which is of near a month’s continuance. There is a species of
this genus, much resembling our plant in flower, but nothing in the
leaf; it is known by the name of L. patens, and has been frequently sold
for this, but its scent is quite different, and it flowers much earlier;
that is to say, in the month of March, but the L. fragrans does not
produce its blossoms till May. It is a very hardy greenhouse bulb, and
requires no particular management to make it flower; this, however, it
does not do, but once in two years; not even appearing in foliage, but
in the second year from its flowering. Our figure was made at the
Hammersmith Nursery, to which it was introduced, from the Cape of Good
Hope, in the year 1798.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCIII.

GERANIUM BARBATUM.

_Bearded-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis pinnatis; foliolis inequaliter dentatis barbatis;
floribus umbellatis; staminibus quinque fertilibus, binis longioribus
reflexis; scapo polystachio; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with winged leaves; leaflets unequally toothed and bearded;
flowers grow in umbels; five fertile chives, the two longest reflexed;
flower-stem branched; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The cup, natural size, cut open.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The Chives cut and spread open, magnified.

4. The Pointal and Seed-bud, magnified.

The singular bearded termination, on each tooth, of the leaflets of this
species of Geranium, has induced us to give it a specific title;
although, in many other respects, it approaches very near two or three
others, already figured, by us, of this long genus. It is from the same
country with the other tuberous species, and introduced to the
Hibbertian collection in 1800, where our drawing was made in July 1802.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCIV.

DAVIESIA ULICIFOLIA.

_Furze-leaved Daviesia._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, campanulatum quinquedentatum; laciniis
equalibus erectis.

COROLLA papillionacea, pentapetala.

_Vexillum_ cordatum erectum.

_Alæ_ oblongæ, vexillo duplo breviores.

_Carina_ dipetala, alis paulo longiora.

STAMINA. Filamenta decem, distincta, assurgentia, longitudine carinæ.
Antheræ simplices minimæ.

PISTILLUM. German ovato-oblongum. Stylus subulatus, magnitudine et situ
staminum. Stigma acutum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula triangularis, compressa, acuta, unilocularis,
bivalvis.

SEMEN unum, reniforme.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, bell-shaped, five-toothed; segments equal,
upright.

BLOSSOM butterfly-shaped, five-petalled.

_Standard_ heart-shaped, upright.

_Wings_ oblong, half the length of the standard.

_Keel_ two petals, a little shorter than the wings.

CHIVES. Threads ten, distinct, turned upwards, the length of the keel.
Tips simple, very small.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong egg-shaped. Shaft awl-shaped, of the same size
and station as the chives. Summit pointed.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule triangular, flat, sharp pointed, one cell, two
valves.

SEED one, kidney-shape.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Daviesia foliis lanceolatis, rigidis pungentibus; floribus axillaribus
spicatis.

Daviesia with lance-shaped leaves, harsh and pricking; flowers grow from
the insertion of the leaves in spikes.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement of the flower, natural size.

2. The Empalement magnified.

3. The Standard, or upper petal of the blossom.

4. One of the Wings of the blossom.

5. The two petals of the Keel.

6. The Chives, magnified.

7. The Pointal.

8. A ripe Seed-vessel.

This division of the butterfly flowered plants, from New Holland, was
among the first genera which were raised from the seeds of that country,
in Britain. And though we have possessed the plants so long, and both
species, or rather the two varieties, perfect their seeds with us; yet
are the plants very scarce, few of them are to be met with, and seldom
more than a plant, or two, is to be found in any collection. The
Daviesias grow about a foot and a half high, and when in flower make a
very pretty appearance, as nearly the whole bush is covered with
blossoms. They are rather tender, and are impatient of wet, which is,
perhaps, the greatest enemy many of the plants from that country have to
encounter with us. It flowers about April or May; is increased by seeds,
or cuttings; should be kept in a small pot, comparatively with what may
be used for the same sized plants, and planted in sandy peat. Our
drawing was made from the Hibbertian collection, in the month of May
1802.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCV.

GERANIUM CORONILLÆFOLIUM.

_Coronilla-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis impari pinnatis, bijugis; foliolis obovatis glabris;
floribus umbellatis pentandris; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with leaves that are winged, with an odd one and two yoked;
leaflets inversely egg-shaped, and smooth; flowers grow in umbels, with
five fertile chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup cut open, to shew its tubular structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The Chives cut and spread open, magnified.

4. The Pointal and Seed-bud, magnified.

The drawing of this Geranium was taken at Clapham in the month of July,
1802, from a plant in the Hibbertian collection, where, we believe, it
is only to be met with, and to which it was introduced, in 1801, from
the Cape of Good Hope. It has no particular character, in its
appearance, from which we might be led to think any other treatment or
mode of culture necessary for this plant, different from the rest of its
congeners.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCVI.

ALETRIS FRAGRANS.

_Sweet-scented Aletris._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA infundibuliformis, rugosa. Stamina inserta laciniarum basi.
Capsula trilocularis.

BLOSSOM funnel-shaped, wrinkled. Chives inserted into the base of the
segments. Capsule three-celled.

See ALETRIS SARMENTOSA, Pl. LIV.

SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Aletris caulescens; foliis lanceolatis, laxis; floribus albicantibus,
fragrantissimis.

Aletris with a woody stem; leaves lance-shaped, loose; flowers whitish,
very sweet-scented.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A miniature representation of the whole plant.

2. A flower complete, natural size.

3. The blossom cut open, with the Chives in their place.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Pointal; the summit detached, magnified.

The Sweet-scented Aletris, from the great height it attains before it
flowers, which is, from 9 to 12 feet, and nearly two-thirds of the
length of the stem, without leaves; takes off much from the merit of
this grand plant as cultivated in our colder regions. It is a native of
Africa, and must be kept in the hot-house, in the bark-bed, to have it
blossom. The flowers are extremely fragrant, open in the evening and
close again with the first rays of the morning sun. It is propagated
either by suckers, which it sometimes produces, or by cutting off small
portions from the roots; which will become plants in about three months,
if placed in the heat of a strong hot-bed; these are likewise very
sweet-scented, having the flavour of orris-root, or violets. Our figure
was taken from a plant in the collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington
Gore, this present month of May, 1803.

A schism has arisen on the subject of this genus among modern botanists;
from whom we must, however, exclude the celebrated author of Miller’s
New Gardeners’ Dictionary; who, in this instance, has preserved the
genus entire. Three genera have, as usual, been made out of one; the
Cape species are denominated Veltheimias; those known under the names of
A. zeylanica and A. guineensis, are termed Sansevieras; A. farinosa and
A. fragrans being the only remnants of the original genus. Such are the
happy effects, of modern scrutiny, upon the works of the antiquated
Linnæus! and such might be the answer of these illuminati, which poor
Gradus, in the farce of _Who’s the Dupe_, gives to his mistress, when
questioned upon the utility of his labours; alas, how else should _our_
merit be discovered, but by elancing from the old track of plain sense
and nature.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCVII.

PROTEA GLOBOSA.

_Globe-flowered Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida, seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft, or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the end. Cup proper, none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.

SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis eliptico-lanceolatis, apicibus callosis; capitulo globoso,
terminali; foliolis calycinis ovatis, reflexis; floribus luteis.

Protea with eliptically-lance-shaped leaves, callous at the ends; head
of flowers globular and terminal; leaflets of the cup egg-shaped, turned
back; flowers yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower complete, natural size.

2. One of the Petals of a blossom, with its chive, magnified.

3. The Pointal, and Seed-bud, natural size.

4. The same, magnified.

5. The common Empalement.

This species of Protea, though it does not stand among the foremost of
its congeners in competition for beauty; yet, has its merits, and those
of no small moment, as a hardy green-house plant; for it rarely misses
flowering, in the month of May, annually, and its blossoms continue in
perfection at least two months. It is seldom hurt by cold or wet, if not
exposed to either in the extreme. Is easily propagated from cuttings,
made in the month of May, or June; by the same mode as has been
described for the increasing the preceding species of the Genus, already
figured in this work. We owe the first introduction of this plant to
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, who raised it from seeds, in the
year 1786, received from the Cape of Good Hope. Our figure was made from
a plant in the Hibbertian collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCVIII.

CROTOLARIA VERRUCOSA.

_Blue-flowered Crotolaria._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads in two sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium tripartitum, magnum, corolla paulo brevius; laciniis
duabus superioribus lanceolatis, vexillo incumbentibus; tertia
lanceolata, concava, carinam fulciente, trifida.

COROLLA papillionacea.

_Vexillum_ cordatum, acutum, magnum, lateribus depressum.

_Alæ_ ovatæ, vexillo dimidio breviores.

_Carina_ acuminata, longitudine alarum.

STAMINA. Filamenta decem, connata, assurgentia, linea dorsali fissa
basique hiante. Antheræ simplices.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, reflexum, hirsutum. Stylus simplex,
infractus, assurgens. Stigma obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen breve, turgidum, uniloculare, bivalve,
pedicillatum.

SEMEN aliquot, globosa-reniformia.

EMPALEMENT. Cup three-parted, large, rather shorter than the blossom;
the two superior segments lance-shaped, laying on the standard; the
third lance-shaped, concave, supporting the keel, three-cleft.

BLOSSOM butterfly-shaped.

_Standard_ heart-shaped, acute, large, depressed on the sides.

_Wings_ egg-shaped, half the length of the standard.

_Keel_ tapered, the length of the wings.

CHIVES. Ten threads, united, turned upwards, with a split line on the
back, and gaping at the base. Tips simple.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, reflexed, hairy. Shaft simple, bent inwards at
an angle, turned upwards. Summit obtuse.

SEED-VESSEL. Pod short, turgid, one-celled, two valved, with a
fruit-stalk.

SEEDS a few of a rounded kidney-shape.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Crotolaria foliis simplicibus, ovatis, retusis; stipulis lunatis,
declinatis; racemo terminali; ramis tetragonis.

Crotolaria with simple leaves, egg-shaped, dented at the ends;
leaf-props half-moon-shaped, turned downwards; bunch of flowers
terminal; branches four-sided.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. The Standard.

3. One of the Wings.

4. The two petals of the Keel.

5. The Chives.

6. The Pointal and Seed-bud, the Summit detached, magnified.

7. A half ripe Seed-vessel.

8. The same laid open.

This handsome annual is an old inhabitant of our hot-houses, for it has
been cultivated so long ago as the year 1731, by Mr. Miller; but from
its character as an annual, our summers not proving always congenial to
the perfecting its seeds, it has at intervals been lost to us. It is a
native of the East Indies, and, in general, good seed may be procured by
keeping the plants constantly in a hot-bed or hot-house; but the best
method is to raise them on a strong hot-bed, keeping them there till in
flower, and then transferring them to the hot-house or dry-stove, to
perfect their seeds. Our drawing was taken from a fine specimen,
communicated by the Hon. W. H. Irby, from his select collection at the
Parsonage, Farnham Royal, Bucks. Flowers in May or June, and ripens its
seeds in August or September.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCIX.

PULTENÆA VILLOSA.

_Hairy Pultenæa._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX quinquedentatis, utrinque appendiculatus. Corolla papilionacea,
alis vexillo brevioribus. Legumen uniloculare, dispernum.

CUP five-toothed, with a hanging prop on each side. Blossom
butterfly-shaped, the wings shorter than the standard. A one-celled pod,
two seeded.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pultenæa foliis oblongis, villosis; floribus axillaribus, solitariis,
spicatis; caule villoso; calycibus inappendiculatis.

Pultenæa with oblong, hairy leaves; flowers grow from the insertion of
the leaves, solitary, and in spikes; stem hairy; cup without props.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Leaf.

2. The Cup, natural size.

3. The Standard of the blossom.

4. One of the Wings of the blossom.

5. The two Leaves of the keel.

6. The Empalement, Chives, and Pointal, magnified.

7. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.

Where to place the limits to the various new genera of this very
extended natural order of plants, with butterfly blossoms, from New
Holland, appears a talk of some difficulty with our modern botanists;
for, no sooner have we formed an essential character for a genus, than
immediately we are struck with the appearance of new plants, whose whole
habits assimilate with our newly constructed family, but in the
principal and pointed essential character. In such predicament stands
our present subject, it wants the appendicula to the cup, yet has it
been placed, by Willdenow, &c. to Pultenæa; and with good reason, we
presume, for if every difference of this nature was taken up, on which
to form new genera, nearly every plant from that country would furnish
grounds for new names; and, to say the truth, we think they are,
already, sufficiently extended. The Pultenæas are all rather impatient
of wet, and although they are not frequently killed by too much
moisture, yet they become unsightly, by losing all their lower leaves.
This species grows to the height of about three feet; and, when in
flower, makes a very handsome appearance. It perfects its seeds, and may
be increased by cuttings, which should be put in about the beginning of
April. A mixture of sandy peat three parts, and one fourth part of loam,
is the best soil to grow it in. It was amongst the first plants which
were raised from Botany Bay seeds in this country. Our figure was made
at the Hammersmith nursery, in 1801.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCX.

STACHYS COCCINEA.

_Scarlet Clownheal._


CLASS XIV. ORDER I.

_DIDYNAMIA GYMNOSPERMIA._ Two Chives longer. Seed naked.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tubulatum, angulatum, semiquinquefidum,
acuminatum, persistens; dentriculis acuminatis, subulatis, subinæquale.

COROLLA monopetala, ringens; tubus brevissimus; faux oblonga, ad basin
deorsum gibba; _labium superius_ erectum, subovatum, fornicatum, sæpe
emarginatum; _labium inferius_ majus, trifidum lateribus reflexum;
_lacinula intermedia_ maxima, emarginata, replicata.

STAMINA. Filamenta quatuor, quorum duo breviora, subulata, ad latera
faucis recurvata. Antheræ simplices.

PISTILLUM. Germen quadripartitum. Stylus filiformis, situ et longitudine
staminum. Stigma bifidum, acutum.

PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx vix mutatus.

SEMINA quatuor, ovata, angulata.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, tubular, angular, five shallow clefts, taper,
permanent; toothless taper, awl-shaped, nearly equal.

BLOSSOM one petal, gaping; tube very short; mouth oblong, hunched
downwards towards the base; _upper lip_ upright, rather egg-shaped,
arched, often notched at the end; _lower lip_ large, three-cleft, side
ones reflexed; the _middle segment_, which is the largest, notched at
the end, and folded back.

CHIVES. Four threads, of which two are shorter, awl-shaped, bent to the
sides of the mouth. Tips simple.

POINTAL. Seed-bud with four divisions. Shaft thread-shaped, of the
length and situation of the chives. Summit cloven, sharp-pointed.

SEED-VESSEL none. The cup scarce changed.

SEEDS four, egg-shaped, angular.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Stachys verticillis sexfloris; foliis ovato-oblongis, basi cordatis,
crenatis; floribus coccineis.

Clownheal with six flowered whorls; leaves oblong-egg-shaped,
heart-shaped at the base, scolloped; flowers scarlet.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup, natural size.

2. The Blossom cut open, with the chives in their place.

3. The Seed-buds and Pointal, the summit detached, magnified.

4. The Seed-buds, magnified.

Although this species of Stachys must be considered as an herbaceous
plant, yet the stem, if kept in the green-house, may be preserved; and
therefore, as it is too tender to bear our winters, in the open ground,
we must consign it to that station. It is a native of South America; is
easily propagated by cuttings; flowers in the month of July, or August,
and thrives in rich mould. The figure was taken from a plant in the
collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore, where, we believe, it
flowered for the first time in Britain.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXI.

GERANIUM PINNATUM.

_Winged-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis pinnatis; foliolis subrotundo-ovatis, hirsutis; floribus
flavis, staminibus quinque fertilibus; scapo polystachio; radice
tuberosa.

Geranium with winged leaves; leaflets rather round-egg-shaped, and
hairy; flowers yellow; five fertile chives; flower-stem branched; root
tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower-cup, natural size, cut open.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The Chives cut and spread open, magnified.

4. The Pointal and Seed-bud, magnified.

The specific title of this plant, originally, belonged to a species
which is, now, confounded amongst the numerous variety of Geranium
lacerum. And, indeed, the present plant is taken as a synonim, by
Willdenow, with G. astragalifolium, of which we have given a figure in a
preceding number. This was among the first of the tuberous kind of
Geraniums known to our gardens. Mr. F. Masson, according to the Kew
Catalogue, first introduced it to the Kew Gardens in 1788. It has
nothing particular in its character to require a different treatment
from the rest of the tuberous species. Our drawing was made from a plant
in the Hammersmith Collection, in March 1801.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXII.

STYPHELIA VIRIDIS.

_Green-flowered Styphelia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX imbricatus. Corolla tubulosa. Stamina fauci inserta. Drupa
quinque-locularis. Semina bina.

CUP tiled. Blossom tubular. Chives inserted into the mouth of the
blossom. A pulpy berry with five cells. Seeds by twos.

See STYPHELIA TRIFLORA. Pl. LXXII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Styphelia foliis utrinque acuminatis, obliquis, acutis, glaberrimis;
floribus axillaribus, solitariis, viridibus.

Styphelia with leaves tapered to both ends, oblique, pointed, very
smooth; flowers grow from the insertion of the leaves, solitary and
green.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup of a flower, natural size.

2. A Blossom, with the Chives in their place, cut open.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, the Summit magnified.

Few of the plants from New Holland have excited more admiration than the
Styphelias; the S. tubiflora figured in the New Holland botany of Dr.
Smith, the S. triflora given in the first Vol. of this work, our present
plant, together with the numerous other species already known from dried
specimens, lead us to conjecture that the genus is as copious as any,
Banksia not excepted, from that country. This plant grows to the height
of two feet, or more; the flowers nearly covering the branches. It is
rather delicate, requiring but little water, in the winter months; as it
is certain to perish, if kept wet any considerable time. Is propagated
by cuttings, and must be kept in a small pot, proportional to the size
of the plant, in very sandy peat earth. Our figure was taken from a
plant in the Hibbertian collection, in the month of April, 1803. All the
plants, at present in Britain, of this species of Styphelia, are the
offspring of one solitary seed, received by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy from
New Holland, in the year 1791.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXIII.

JUSTICIA LUCIDA.

_Shining-leaved Justicia._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, minimum, quinquepartitum, acutum,
erectum, angustum.

COROLLA monopetala, ringens; tubus gibbus; limbus bilabiatus, labium
superius oblongum, emarginatum, labium inferius ejusdem longitudinis,
reflexum, trifidum.

STAMINA. Filamenta duo, subulata, sub labio superiore recondita. Antheræ
erectæ, ad basin bifidæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen turbinatum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine et situ
staminum. Stigma simplex.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, obtusa, basi angustata, bilocularis,
bivalvis; dissepimento valvulis contrario, ungue elastico dehiscens.

SEMINA subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, very small, five-divided, pointed, erect,
narrow.

BLOSSOM one petal, gaping; tube hunched; border two-lipped; the upper
lip oblong, notched at the end; the under lip of the same length,
reflexed, and three-cleft.

CHIVES. Two threads, awl-shaped, hid under the upper lip. Tips upright,
two-cleft at the base.

POINTAL. Seed-bud top-shaped. Shaft thread-shaped, the length and
situation of the chives. Summit simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, obtuse, narrowed at the base, two-celled,
two valved; the partition opposite to the valves splitting from an
elastic claw.

SEEDS roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Justicia spicis terminalibus; floribus subcapitatis; foliis elipticis,
nervosis, bullatis, lucidis; corollis bilabiatis, labio superiore
lanceolato; caule fruticoso, glabro.

Justicia with terminal spikes; flowers grow nearly in heads; leaves
elliptic, nerved, blistered, and shining; blossoms two-lipped, the upper
lip lance-shaped; stem shrubby, smooth.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom cut open, with the Chives in their place.

2. The Cup and Pointal.

3. An unripe Seed.

Most of the species of this genus of plants have hitherto been
considered of little value in our collections, as few of them have woody
stems, and from that character have a weedy appearance. This plant
however is an exception, and is well worthy a place in collections where
ornament only, not variety, is studied. It grows to the height of three
feet, flowers in the month of August, is easily increased from cuttings,
and may be kept in the hot-house, out of the bark-bed. The Justicia
coccinea and this plant approach in the appearance of their flowers and
habit; but the leaves differ much as well as many other minuter parts.
It is a native of the East Indies, and was introduced about the year
1794. Our figure was taken from a plant in the Collection of G. Hibbert,
Esq. Clapham Common.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXIV.

ITEA SPINOSA.

_Thorny Itea._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, quinquefidum, erectum, acuminatum,
minimum, persistens, laciniis acutis, coloratis.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, lanceolata, longa, calyci inserta.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, erecta, longitudine corollæ,
calyci inserta. Antheræ subrotundæ, incumbentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus cylindraceus, persistens, longitudine
staminum. Stigma obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata calyce multoties longior, stylo muconato,
unilocularis, bivalvis ex duabus coalita apice dehiscens.

SEMINA numerosa, minima, oblonga, nitida.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, five-cleft, upright, tapered, very small,
remaining, segments pointed, coloured.

BLOSSOM. Petals five, lance-shaped, long, inserted into the cup.

CHIVES. Five threads, awl-shaped, upright, the length of the blossom,
inserted into the cup. Tips roundish, laying on the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft cylindrical, permanent, the length
of the chives. Summit obtuse.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, much longer than the cup, tapering into
the shaft, one-celled, two-valved of two joined, splitting at top.

SEEDS numerous, very small, oblong, shining.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Itea foliis cuneiformibus, emarginatis; spinis axillaribus.

Itea with wedge-shaped leaves, notched at the end; spines grow at the
insertion of the leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, magnified.

2. A Flower complete, magnified.

3. The Chives and Pointal, magnified; part of the cup and the petals
taken away, to shew the insertion of the Chives into the cup.

4. The Pointal, magnified.

This plant is a native of New Holland, and was introduced from thence by
the Right Honourable the Marchioness of Rockingham, at the same time
with the Bauera rubioides of this work; and from a specimen communicated
by her Ladyship in September, 1801, our drawing was taken. It is a hardy
green-house plant, continuing in flower from August till December; makes
a very bushy handsome shrub, especially when planted in a conservatory.
Is easily propagated by cuttings, made in the month of April, and kept
on a gentle heat until they are rooted. It thrives most in sandy peat,
with a small mixture of sandy loam.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXV.

ORCHIS BICORNIS.

_Two-horned Orchis._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

NECTARIUM corniforme pone florem.

HONEY-CUP like a horn behind the flower.

See ORCHIS CILIARIS, Pl. XLII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Orchis bulbis indivisis; corollis galea bicalcarata; labio
quinque-partito.

Orchis with undivided bulbs; helmet of the blossom two spurred, lip
five-parted.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower, natural size.

2. The same, magnified, with the front petals cut away to expose the
parts of fructification, one of the chives being liberated from its
cell.


This singular little Orchis was first introduced to us, from the Cape of
Good Hope, by Mr. F. Masson, in 1787, but has been lost to our gardens
since near that time till last year, when we had the pleasure of seeing
it again in the collection of T. Evans, Esq. Stepney; but we much fear,
without a fresh supply of roots, it will again soon stand but as a name
in our catalogues. It is a very tender and delicate plant; and, like
nearly the whole of this natural order, difficult to propagate or
preserve in a cultivated state; wherefore we cannot pretend to recommend
any particular method. The bulb which flowered at Stepney was planted in
sandy peat, and appeared in good health. It flowers in September, loses
its leaves soon after flowering, and is extremely fragrant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXVI.

OLEA APETALA.

_Petal-less Olive._


CLASS II. ORDER I.

_DIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Two Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tubulatum, parvum; ore quadridentato,
erecto, deciduum.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus cylindraceus, longitudine
calycis; limbus quadripartitus, planus; laciniis subovatis.

STAMINA. Filamenta duo, opposita, subulata, brevia. Antheræ erectæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus simplex, brevissimus. Stigma
bifidum, crassiusculum; laciniis emarginatis.

PERICARPIUM. Drupa subovata, glabra, unilocularis.

SEMEN. Nux ovato-oblonga, rugosa.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leafed, tabular, small; mouth four-toothed, erect,
deciduous.

BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shaped; tube cylindrical, the length of the
cup; border four-divided, flat; segments nearly egg-shaped.

CHIVES. Two threads, opposite, awl shaped, short. Tips upright.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish. Shaft simple, very short. Summit two-cleft,
thickish; clefts notched at the ends.

SEED-VESSEL. A pulpy berry, rather egg-shaped, smooth, one-celled.

SEED. A nut oblong-egg-shaped, rough.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Olea foliis elipticis, floribus racemosis, apetalis.

Olive, with eliptically-shaped leaves, flowers in long bunches without
petals.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A. Flower expanded, magnified.

2. The same with the Chives exposed, magnified.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit, magnified.

4. A half ripe Berry.

5. The same cut transversely.

Our present figure represents a plant a native of New Holland and New
Zealand, in the Pacific Ocean; but, we have great reason to think, it
has been referred, rather rashly, to the genus under which it is here
named; and that it possesses a distinctive character sufficient on which
to have formed a new one. We have, nevertheless, as usual, taken it up
under the title it is in general known by, as published by Vahl, in his
Symbolæ Botanicæ, Part III. p. 3, and quoted from him into Willdenow’s
Sp. Plant. p. 46, and thence into Professor Martyn’s ed. of Miller’s
Dict. article Olea, 5. Whether the fruit of this plant will ever turn to
account, when cultivated, as an article of food, time must evince; but,
certainly, it bears an appearance of much hope. It is a strong woody
growing shrub, forming itself into a handsome round-headed plant; and,
when in full flower, has a very pretty appearance, having all the
necessary qualities of such plants as are fit for planting out in a
conservatory. It is propagated by cuttings; should be planted in sandy
peat earth, mixed with a small portion of loam; producing its flowers
about February or March. Our drawing was made from a plant in the
Hammersmith Collection, to which it was first added in the year 1791;
having been raised from seeds communicated to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy by
Colonel Paterson.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXVII.

GERANIUM UNDULATUM. _Var. Minor._

_Waved-flowered Geranium._ _Lesser Var._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

CENTER
See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis radicalibus lanceolatis, integerrimis, petiolis
longitudine foliorum; petalis cuneiformibus, equalibus, undulatis;
floribus pentandris; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with the root leaves lance-shaped, quite entire; foot-stalks
the length of the leaves; petals wedge-shaped, equal, waved; flowers
with five fertile chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open, natural size.

2. The Chives cut and spread open, magnified.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summits.

This very handsome tuberous Geranium, and which we have rather placed as
a variety than a species, might perhaps by some have been considered as
sufficiently distinct to have formed a species; but, indeed, much
difficulty arises in the determining, amongst this variable tribe, where
to fix determinate specific character. Our present figure was taken from
the Hibbertian Collection, where as yet the plant is only to be seen in
Britain. It flowers in June or July; does not perfect its seeds, nor has
the appearance of easily propagating from the root; the usual method
with this link of the Geranium family. It thrives in sandy peat and leaf
mould.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXVIII.

HÆMANTHUS MULTIFLORUS.

_Many-flowered Blood-Flower._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Involucrum hexaphyllum, maximum, umbelluliferum; foliolis
erectis, oblongis, persistentibus.

COROLLA monopetala, erecta, sexpartita; laciniis erectis, linearibus;
tubo brevissimo, angulato.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, tubo corollæ inserta, corolla
longiora. Antheræ incumbentes, oblongæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen inferum. Stylus simplex, longitudine staminum. Stigma
simplex.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca subrotunda, trilocularis.

SEMINA solitaria, triquetra.

EMPALEMENT. Fence six-leaved, large, bearing a small umbel; leaflets
upright, oblong, permanent.

BLOSSOM one petal, upright, six-parted; segments upright, linear; tube
very short, angular.

CHIVES. Threads six, awl-shaped, inserted into the tube of the blossom,
longer than the blossom. Tips laying on the threads, oblong.

POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath. Shaft simple, the length of the chives.
Summit simple.

SEED-VESSEL. Berry roundish, three-celled.

SEEDS solitary, three-sided.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hæmanthus foliis plicatis, undulatis, erectis, lato-lanceolatis; umbella
globosa; floribus confertis; petalis patentibus; scapo ad basin
maculato.

Blood flower with plaited leaves, waved, upright and broad-lance shaped;
umbel globular; flowers crowded; petals spreading; flower-stem spotted
at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Leaves and part of the Flower-Stem, in miniature.

2. A Flower, complete, natural size.

3. The Seed-bud, Shaft, and Summit.

4. A Seed-bud, cut transversely.

5. The embryo of a Seed.

This plant is said to have been in our European gardens so long ago as
the year 1603: having, at that time, been sent to Paris by the younger
Robin from Guinea. But however this may be, as yet there is no figure of
the plant by which it may be known from many of this beautiful tribe,
except the one by the late Mr. Nodder. We are indebted for its last
introduction to the honourable the Sierra Leone Company, who received,
in 1792, the roots of this plant, amongst many others, from that
settlement; which were by them presented to Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, at
Hammersmith. Our figure was taken in June from a plant in flower this
present year, 1803, in the collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore,
where, from particular management of Mr. Anderson, the same root has
flowered several times; a circumstance that but rarely happens with
these bulbs after the first year from importation. As a native of so hot
a clime it must be kept in the bark bed of the hot-house; and, when the
plant is not in flower, should be watered but sparingly. We as yet are
unacquainted with any mode by which it may be propagated. It flourishes
most in rich mould. Our figure represents the plant in a small specimen,
as the head of flowers is frequently, in this country, of three times
the size.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXIX.

VICIA GALEGIFOLIA.

_Goat’s-Rue-leaved Vetch._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives in two sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tubulatum, erectum, semi-quinquefidum,
acutum; dentibus superioribus brevioribus, conniventibus; omnibus
æqualis latitudinis.

COROLLA papillionacea.

_Vexillum_ ovale, ungue lato oblongo, apice emarginatum cum acumine,
lateribus reflexum, linea longitudinali compressa elevata.

_Alæ_ duæ, oblongæ, erectæ, semicordatæ, ungue oblongo, vexillo
breviores.

_Carina_ ungue oblongo bipartito, ventriculo compresso, semiorbiculato,
alis breviore.

STAMINA. Filamenta diadelphia (simplex et novemfidum). Antheræ erectæ,
subrotundæ, quadrisulcæ.

_Nectarii glandulæ_ intra stamen compositum et germen e receptaculo
oritur, brevis, acuminata.

PISTILLUM. Germen lineare, compressum, longum. Stylus filiformis,
brevior, ad angulum erectum adscendens. Stigma obtusum, sub apice
transverse barbatum.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen longum, coriaceum, uniloculare, bivalve, acumine
terminatum.

SEMINA plura, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, tubular, upright, half five-cleft sharp; the
upper teeth the shortest, approaching; all the teeth of equal breadth.

BLOSSOM butterfly-shaped.

_Standard_ oval, with a broad oblong claw, notched at the top, with a
point in the middle, sides reflexed, compressed and raised in a line
running lengthways.

_Wings_ two, oblong, erect, half-heart shaped, with an oblong claw,
shorter than the standard.

_Keel_, with an oblong two-parted claw, the hollow part compressed like
a half circle shorter than the wings.

CHIVES. Threads in two sets, (one alone, the other nine-cleft.) Tips
upright, roundish four-furrowed.

_Honey-cup_, gland arising from the receptacle between the united
threads and the seed-bud; short and tapered.

POINTAL. Seed-bud linear, compressed and long. Shaft thread-shaped,
shorter, turned upwards from an angle. Summit blunt, bearded
transversely on the upper part at the end.

SEED-VESSEL. Pod long, tough, one-celled, two-valved terminated by a
point.

SEEDS many, rather round.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Vicia pedunculis multifloris erectis; floribus striatis; foliolis
ovalibus, subtruncatis, reflexis.

Vetch with many-flowered, upright fruit-stalks; flowers streaked;
leaflets oval, rather appearing cut off at the points, reflexed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.

2. The Standard, or upper Petal of the Flower, shewn in front.

3. The same, shewn from the back-side.

4. One of the Wings of the Blossom.

5. The Keel of the same.

6. The Chives, natural size.

7. The Pointal, natural size.

8. The Chives, magnified, shewn from the front side.

9. A half-ripe Pod.

This pretty plant is a native of New Holland, and was first received in
seeds from thence under the name of Indigofera coccinea, in the year
1800, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith. It grows into a bushy
plant, making a number of branches from the root, but is rather a woody
than herbaceous plant; yet the branches have all the character of most
of the species of this genus. It has not as yet been increased by
cuttings, but from every appearance the seeds will ripen in this
country; and there is little doubt but the roots may be divided with
safety. It flourishes in a mixture of sandy peat and loam. Our figure
was taken from a plant in the Collection of Messrs. Colvilies, King’s
Road, Chelsea; where it has likewise flowered this present August,
1803.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXX.

PULTENÆA ILICIFOLIA.

_Holly-leaved Pultenæa._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX quinque-dentatus, utrinque appendiculatus. Corolla papillionacea,
alis vexillo brevioribus. Legumen uniloculare, dispermum.

CUP five-toothed, with an appendage on each side. Blossom
butterfly-shaped, wings shorter than the standard. Pod one-celled, two
seeded.

See PULTENÆA DAPHNOIDES, Pl. XCVIII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pultenæa foliis hastatis, serratis, rigidis; floribus axillaribus,
racemosis.

Pultenæa with halbert-shaped leaves, sawed and harsh; flowers grow from
the insertion of the leaves in long bunches.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup, natural size.

2. The same, magnified.

3. The Standard, or upper petal of the blossom.

4. One of the Wings of the same.

5. The two petals of the keel of the same.

6. The Chives and Pointal.

7. The Chives, magnified.

8. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, magnified.

This species of Pultenæa was introduced, from New Holland, about the
year 1792, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith, and is undoubtedly
one of the handsomest of the genus. It is difficult to increase as the
seeds do not mature, and it is very rarely propagated by cuttings. It
grows to the height of three or four feet; and, when in flower, makes a
very brilliant appearance. It is not a long-liv’d plant; is very
impatient of wet, and is easily hurt by the cold, so should be kept in a
dry and warm part of the green-house, or even on a shelf in the
hot-house, during the winter months. It thrives in very sandy peat earth
without any mixture. Our drawing was made from a plant in the Hibbertian
Collection, in the month of June, 1801.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXI.

ARETHUSA PLICATA.

_Plaited-leaved Arethusa._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Spatha foliacea. Perianthium nullum.

COROLLA, ringens; petala quinque, oblonga, subæqualia, duo exteriora,
omnia conniventia in galeam.

_Nectarium_ monophyllum, basi tubulosum, intra corollæ fundum,
bipartitum; labio inferiore reflexo, lato, rugoso, longitudine
petalorum, propendente; labio superiore lineari, tenerrimo, stylo
adnato, apice lobato.

STAMINA. Filamenta duo, brevissima, pistilli apici insidentia. Antheræ
ovatæ, compressæ, tectæ duplicatura labii interioris nectarii.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, inferum. Stylus oblongus, incurvus, labio
interiore nectarii vestitus. Stigma infundibuliforme.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblongo-ovata, unilocularis, tri-valvis, angulis
dehiscens.

SEMINA numerosa, acerosa.

EMPALEMENT. Sheath leafy. Cup none.

BLOSSOM gaping. Five petals, oblong, nearly equal, two outer, all
converging into a helmet.

_Honey-cup_ one-leafed, tubular at the base, within the bottom of the
blossom, two-parted; lower lip reflexed, broad, wrinkled, the length of
the petals, hanging down forwards; upper lip linear, very delicate,
fixed to the shaft, lobed at top.

CHIVES. Two threads, very short, sitting on the top of the pointal. Tips
egg-shaped, flattened, covered by the folding of the inner lip of the
honey-cup.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, beneath. Shaft oblong, incurved, cloathed by
the inner lip of the honey-cup. Summit funnel-shaped.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong egg-shaped, one-celled, three-valved,
splitting at the angles.

SEEDS numerous, chaffy.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Arethusa radice globosa; folio cordato, plicato, hirsuto.

Arethusa with a globular root; leaf heart-shaped, plaited and hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Plant, after the Flower has disappeared.

2. The Petals of the Flower, spread open.

3. The Honey-cup, spread open.

4. The Chives and Pointal.

5. The same, magnified; the hood, to which the chives are attached,
lifted up.


This singular little bulbous rooted plant was received this year, 1803,
in the month of April, amongst a number of other curious new seeds and
bulbs, from the East-Indies, by Aylmer Bourke Lambert, Esq. by whom they
have been communicated to different collections. Although the plant has
considerable affinity with Arethusa, yet we entertain doubts whether it
should not be placed to Limodorum, as it wants many of the generic
characters of the former genus, and but few, and those but trivial in
its correspondence, to the latter. We have, notwithstanding, given it
the title under which it was sent, submitting our judgment to what we
conceive better authority. There is little doubt but the plant will soon
be lost in our collections, as but few of this natural order are either
to be propagated or kept by any cultivation we are at present acquainted
with. Our figure was taken from a plant which flowered in the hot-house
of J. Vere, Esquire, Kensington Gore, in the month of July, before there
was any appearance of either root or leaf from the bulb. It was in
flower at the same time in the Collection of Sir Abraham Hume, Bart.
Wormley-Bury, Herts.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXII.

PITCAIRNIA LATIFOLIA.

_Broad-leaved Pitcairnia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX triphyllus, semisuperus. Petala 3. Squama nectarifera ad basin
petalorum. Stigmata tria contorta. Capsula tria, introrsum dehiscentes.
Semina alata.

EMPALEMENT three-leaved, half superior. Petals three; with a scaly
honey-cup at the base of the petals. Three summits twisted. Three
capsules, splitting from the inside. Seeds winged.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pitcairnia foliis integerrimis, basi subspinosis.

Pitcairnia with leaves quite entire, rather spiney at the base.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. One of the Petals, with its scale at the base.

3. The Chives and Pointal, cleared from the Petals.

4. The Pointal, the Summits detached, magnified.

5. The Seed-bud, cut transversely.

The species of Pitcairnia here figured is a native of Jamaica, and was
first introduced to Britain by Mr. A. Anderson, in the year 1785. It
does not flower so readily as some of the other species, but is equally
easy to increase; flourishes in rich earth, and may be kept on a shelf
of the hot-house until its flower-stem appears; when, to encourage its
flowering, it should be plunged in the bark-bed.--Our drawing was made,
in the month of July, from a plant in the Collection of J. Vere,
Esquire, Kensington Gore.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXIII.

GERANIUM BARBATUM. _Var. Minor._

_Bearded-leaved Geranium._ _Lesser Var._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNIA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis pinnatis; foliolis inequaliter, dentatis, apice
barbatis; floribus umbellatis; petalis linearibus, recurvatis;
staminibus quinque fertilibus, binis longioribus; scapo polystachio;
radice tuberosa.

Geranium with winged leaves, leaflets unequally toothed, and bearded at
the point; flowers grow in umbels, petals linear, recurved; five fertile
chives, two longer; flower-stem branched; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup cut open, to shew its tubular structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The Chives cut open, magnified.

4. The Pointal, natural size.

5. The same, magnified.

Our present figure is taken from a plant in the Hibbertian Collection,
Clapham; and is a very strong variety of the Bearded-leaved Geranium of
a former number, taken from the same source. It is, as far as
appearances lead, no way differing in character from the rest of the
tuberous species of this genus, to require any other treatment. Flowers
in June or July.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXIV.

MAGNOLIA PURPUREA.

_Purple-flowered Magnolia._


CLASS XIII. ORDER VII. _of Schreb. Gen. Plants._

_POLYANDRIA POLYGYNIA._ Many Chives. Many Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX 3-phyllus. Petala 6-12. Capsulæ 2-valves, imbricatæ. Semina
baccata, pendula.

CUP 3-leaved. Petals 6-12. Capsules 2-valved, tiled. Seeds, berries,
pendulous.

See MAGNOLIA PUMILA, Pl. CCXXVI. Vol. IV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Magnolia foliis obovatis, flaccidis; floribus purpureis; petalis
obovatis, divaricatis.

Magnolia with inversely egg-shaped, flaccid leaves; flowers purple;
petals inversely egg-shaped and straddling.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Chives and Pointals.

2. A Chive, magnified.

3. The Pointals.

This fine species of Magnolia is a native of China and Japan, was
introduced to us by the late Mr. Slater of Laytonstone, to whom we are
so much indebted for the greatest number of beautiful plants which have
been imported from thence by any individual. It is a very free growing
plant; will resist the severity of our winters, if planted in a warm
situation, and is deciduous; but if kept in the conservatory, it retains
its leaves the whole year, and flowers about June. It is propagated with
ease by laying, or by cuttings, and thrives in peat earth, with a small
mixture of loam. The plant from which our figure was taken is in the
magnificent Conservatory of the Right Honourable the Marquis of
Blandford, White Knights, near Reading, Berks; and, we believe, the
finest specimen of this species of Magnolia in Britain.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXV.

CODON ROYENI.

_Prickly Codon._


CLASS XI. ORDER I.

_DODECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Twelve Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, duodecempartitum; foliolis subulatis,
persistentibus, erectis, alternis brevioribus.

COROLLA monopetala, campanulata, basi torulosa; limbo duodecimpartito,
aquali.

_Nectarium_ duodecim loculare ex squamis 12, unguibus staminum insertis,
conniventibus, receptaculum tegentibus.

STAMINA. Filamenta duodecim, longitudine corollæ. Antheræ crassæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen superum, conicum. Stylus simplex, longitudine
staminum. Stigmata duo, longa, setacea, divergentia.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula bilocularis.

SEMINA plurima, subrotunda, nigra.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, twelve-divided; leaflets awl-shaped,
remaining, upright, the alternate ones shorter.

BLOSSOM one petal, bell-shaped, rather swelled at the base; border
twelve-divided, equal.

_Honey-cup_ twelve-celled, consisting of 12 scales, inserted into the
claws of the chives, approaching, covering the receptacle.

CHIVES. Twelve threads, the length of the blossom. Tips thick.

POINTAL. Seed-bud above, conical. Shaft simple, the length of the
chives. Summits two, long, like bristles, straddling.

SEED VESSEL. Capsule two-celled.

SEEDS numerous, roundish, black,


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Codon foliis alternis, cordato-ovatis, acuminatis, setaceo-spinosis;
floribus subcapitatis, terminalibus.

Codon with alternate leaves, between heart-shaped and oval, tapered to
the point, with spine-like bristles; flowers grow nearly in heads,
terminating the branches.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement.

2. A Blossom spread open, with the chives in their place.

3. The same shewn from the outside.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summits.

5. The Seed-bud, cut transversely.

As an interesting desideratum, this plant has stood long amongst
botanical collectors; but till the year 1801, it was never seen, in a
vegetating state, in Britain; at which period, it was introduced to our
gardens, by Mr. Niven, from the Cape of Hope. It is not, we believe,
(although considered hitherto as such,) an annual; but rather, a half
woody shrub, easily destroyed by moisture. As the seed appears to ripen
freely, although there seems no other mode of perpetuating the plant, we
shall stand in no danger of losing it; its attractions are, indeed, not
great as to beauty, but much so as to singularity; since we have no
plant to which it affines in general habit. The seeds should be sown on
a gentle hot-bed, in March, and transplanted when about two inches high,
into pots, to flower, which they will do about September. Our drawing
was made at the Hammersmith Nursery. Having had the opportunity of
examining the flowers, of more than twenty plants; we are convinced it
has been wrong placed by Van Royen to decandria; for although many
flowers may be found, even on the same plant, some with eight, others
with ten chives, yet at least 90 out of 100 have twelve; wherefore we
have, without scruple, placed it to dodecandria.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXVI.

PHARNACEUM LINEARE.

_Linear-leaved Pharnaceum._


CLASS V. ORDER III.

_PENTANDRIA TRIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Three Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium pentaphyllum; foliolis subovatis, concavis,
patentibus, æqualibus, persistentibus, intus coloratus, margine tenui.

COROLLA nulla; hinc calycis margo tenuis et calyx interne coloratus.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, subulata, longitudine calycis. Antheræ basi
bifidæ.

PISTILLA. Germen ovatum, trigonum. Styli tres, filiformes, longitudine
staminum. Stigmata obtusa.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula ovata, obsoletè trigona, tecta, trilocularis,
trivalvis.

SEMINA numerosa, nitida, orbiculata, depressa, margine acuto cincta.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-leaved; leaflets nearly egg-shaped, concave,
spreading, equal, permanent, coloured within, with a thin edge.

BLOSSOM none; hence the edge of the cup is thin and the inside of it is
coloured.

CHIVES. Five-threads, awl-shaped, the length of the cup. Tips cleft at
the base.

POINTALS. Seed-bud egg-shaped, three-sided. Shafts three, thread-shaped,
the length of the chives. Summits blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule egg-shaped, bluntly three-cornered, covered,
three-celled, three valves.

SEEDS numerous, shining, orbicular, flattened, surrounded by a sharp
rim.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pharnaceum foliis linearibus, verticillatis; umbellis inequalibus;
calycibus aurantiis; caule decumbente.

Pharnaceum with linear leaves, growing in whorls; umbels unequal; cups
orange coloured; stem bending downwards.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup, shewn from the front, with the chives.

2. The same, shewn from the hind part attached to the fruit-stalk.

3. The Seed-bud and Pointals, natural size.

4. The same, magnified.

5. The Seed-bud, cut transversely, magnified.

This little plant much resembles our Corn Spurry, or Spergula arvensis,
at first sight. It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope, seldom grows
more than six inches high, and is very apt to be destroyed by the damps
of our winters. It should be placed in the airyest part of the
greenhouse, and kept in light sandy loam. To propagate it, the cuttings
should be put in, about the month of March, in the heat of a gentle
hot-bed, or the bark-bed of the hot-house; the seeds are sometimes
perfected. It has been often introduced to us, but as often lost; as it
is not a plant of much shew, no great deal of pains has, hitherto, been
taken for its preservation. Our drawing was taken from a plant in the
Hibbertian Collection, in the month of July, 1802.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXVII.

XERANTHEMUM ARGENTEUM.

_Silvery Everlasting-Flower._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

RECEPTACULUM paleaceum. Pappus setaceus. Calyx imbricatus, radiatus;
radio colorato.

RECEPTACLE chaffy. Feather bristly. Cup tiled, rayed; ray coloured.

See XERANTHEMUM SPECIOCISSIMUM, V. I. Pl. LI.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Xeranthemum fruticosum; foliis lanceolatis, carinatis, sericeis;
floribus paniculatis, argenteis.

Everlasting flower with a shrubby stem; leaves lance-shaped, keeled, and
silky; flowers grow in panicles, and silvery.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An hermaphrodite Floret, natural size.

2. The same, magnified.

3. An inner scale of the Empalement.

4. The Receptacle, cleared of the scales and florets.

5. A female Floret, magnified.

6. The Pointal of the above, natural size.

7. The same magnified.

This new species of Everlasting-flower was introduced to us, at the same
time, with the X. spirale this work, Pl. CCLXII. by Montague Burgoyne,
Esq. of Mark Hall, Essex, in the year 1801. It is a quick growing plant,
and has flowered for the first time last April, when our drawing was
taken. The flower stems grow to the length of eighteen inches, or more;
and the buds, upon their first appearance, have a fine tint of flesh
colour, which, however, totally disappears upon the expansion of the
flower. It is propagated by cuttings, seeds, (which ripen in this
country,) or by parting the branches at the root, as it makes many from
one base, which are easily separated by passing a knife between them. It
thrives best in sandy peat with a small portion of loam, and must be
kept in an airy, dry part of the greenhouse.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXVIII.

GERANIUM BUBONIFOLIUM.

_Macedonian-Parsley-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, pentacoccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis pinnatis, pinnis oppositis, lobatis, distantibus, lobis
inciso-dentatis, glabris; petalis emarginatis, albis; staminibus quinque
fertilibus; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with winged leaves, wings opposite, lobed, distant, lobes deep
cut and toothed, smooth; petals notched at the end, white, five fertile
chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup cut and spread open.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. The Chives cut and spread open, magnified.

4. The Pointal, magnified.

This Geranium, from the Cape of Good Hope, is quite distinct in its
habit, from most of the tuberous species; the leaflets or wings of the
leaves being more hand-shaped, and at a greater distance from each
other, than in any which has come under our observation; having much the
appearance of those of the plant from which we have derived its specific
title. The plant was introduced by Mr. Niven, to the Clapham Collection,
in 1800; where our drawing was taken in the month of June, 1802. The
cultivation as usual, for the plants of this branch of the Geranium
family.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXIX.

PHARNACEUM LINEARE. _Var. flo. albo._

_Linear-leaved Pharnaceum. White Var._


CLASS V. ORDER III.

_PENTANDRIA TRIGYNIA._ Five Chives. Three Pointals.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX 5-phyllus. Corolla nulla.

CAPSULA 3-locularis, polysperma.

CUP 5-leaved. Blossom none.

CAPSULE 3-celled, many-seeded.

See PHARNACEUM LINEARE. Pl. CCCXXVI. V. V.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pharnaceum foliis linearibus, verticillatis; umbellis inequalibus;
calycibus albo-virentibus; caule decumbente.

Pharnaceum with linear leaves, growing in whorls; umbels unequal; cups
whitish green; stem bending downwards.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower.

2. The Cup and Chives.

3. The Seed-bud and Pointals, natural size.

4. The same, magnified.

5. The Seed-bud, cut transversely, magnified.

We have given this variety of the linear-leaved Pharnaceum, at the same
time with the orange-coloured, as being the only two Cape species, at
present, in our gardens. It is equally tender and delicate with its
fellow, is equally difficult to propagate; and was introduced, this last
time, to the Hibbertian Collection in 1800, by Mr. Niven, with it.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXX.

NYMPHÆA STELLATA.

_Starr’d Water-Lily._


CLASS XIII. ORDER I.

_POLYANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Many Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX 4, 5, seu 6-phyllus. Cor. polypetala. Bacca multilocularis,
truncata.

CUP 4, 5 or 6-leaved. Bloss. many petals. Berry many-celled, appearing
cut off at top.

See NYMPHÆA CŒRULEA, Pl. CXCVII. Vol. III.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Nymphæa foliis subrotundis, sinuatis, subtus purpurascentibus; lobis
divaricatis, acutis; calyce tetraphyllo, petalis acutis cœruleis
longiore.

Water-lily with nearly round leaves, scollopped and purplish underneath;
lobes straddling and pointed; cup four-leaved, longer than the pointed,
blue petals.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup divested of the petals.

2. A Chive, natural size.

3. The seed-vessel, nearly arrived to maturity.

4. The same, cut transversely.

This fine species of Water-lily is a native of the East Indies, on the
Malabar coast; and has been given by Rheed, in his Hortus Malabaricus,
Vol. II. p. 53. fig. 27. At first sight, it has much the appearance of
N. cœrulea, but upon closer inspection it is found to possess many
strongly differing characters, viz. In this, the under part of the
leaves are purplish, the lobes straddle; in that, they are tiled, or lay
upon each other; in N. stellata the petals or chives seldom exceed ten;
whereas, the N. cœrulea has an indefinite number of both. The roots,
likewise, are perfectly distinct; in N. cœrulea the diverging roots
proceed from the lower part of the bulb, from whence the leaves issue,
but in N. stellata from the top, leaving below them a smooth top-shaped
bulb. The parts which compose the summit, or rather the summits, (for
indeed we should consider them, if it lay with us, as distinct
pointals,) are expanded horizontally when the flower is in its perfect
state, forming a star like appearance, whence its specific name. It is
much tenderer than N. cœrulea, and will not flower but in strong heat.
Mr. Anderson informs us that the plants which have produced perfect
seeds, this year, were from seeds, received by A. B. Lambert, Esq.
(communicated by Dr. Roxburgh from India) in the month of March, and
raised by him for the collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore, where
our drawing was made in August.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXI.

XYLOPHYLLA FALCATA.

_Cymitar-shaped-leaved Xylophylla._


CLASS XXI. ORDER III.

_MONŒCIA TRIANDRIA._ Chives and Pointals separate. Three Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

* _Masculi flores._

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, tripartitum, coloratum; laciniis ovatis,
patulis, ovatis.

COROLLA. Petala tria, ovata, concava.

STAMINA. Filamenta tria, brevissima, basi approximata. Antheræ
subrotundæ, didymæ.

* _Feminei flores_ in eodem fasciculo cum masculis.

CALYX. Perianthium ut in mare.

COROLLA ut in mare.

_Nectarium_ corpusculis glandulosis germen ambientibus.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, trisulcatum. Styli tres, patuli, bifidi.
Stigmata obtusa.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula trigona, trisulca, trilocularis; loculis
bivalvibus.

SEMINA solitaria.

* _Male flowers._

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, three divided, coloured; segments egg-shaped,
spreading, oval.

BLOSSOM. Petals three, egg-shaped, concave.

CHIVES. Threads three, very short, and approaching at the base. Tips
roundish, double.

* _Female flowers_ in the same tuft with the males.

EMPALEMENT. Cup as in the male.

BLOSSOM as in the male.

_Honey-cup_ is formed of small glandular bodies surrounding the
seed-bud.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, three-furrowed. Shafts three, short. Summits
blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule three-sided, three-furrowed, three cells; cells
two-valved.

SEEDS solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Xylophylla foliis sparsis, integris, falcatis, crenatis; crenis remotis,
floriferis; floribus rubris.

Xylophylla with leaves scattered on the stem, entire, cymitar-shaped and
scolloped; the scollops distant, and having the flowers on them; flowers
red.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A male flower, magnified.

2. The blossom of male flowers, spread open, with the honey-cups.

3. A Female flower, magnified.

4. The Germ from a female flower, cut transversely, magnified.

It should seem that this Genus has not been observed with sufficient
accuracy, at least those plants known to us, and which have been treated
of as belonging to the class Pentandria. The present one, for instance,
which is unquestionably the plant designed by Swartz, Commelin, Seba,
&c. an is acknowledged by Swartz to be triandrous and monœcious, yet
that it should be continued in the Kew Catalogue and by Willdenow, &c.
to Pentandria, is astonishing. We have no hesitation in declaring our
opinion that the whole genus as it now stands ought to be thrown to
Phyllanthus. But, as the title Xylophylla is so well known for these
plants; we have thought it more safe to give the Genus those characters
the plants bear under their true Class and Order, than make any
alteration in it. The Xylophylla falcata is a native of the West India
Islands, and has been long cultivated in our hot-houses; so long ago as
the year 1739. It is a tender plant, and will not flower without the
assistance of the bark-bed; is easily propagated by cuttings; grows best
in sandy peat, and flowers in August. Our drawing was made at the
Hammersmith Nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXII.

PROTEA ANEMONIFOLIA.

_Anemony-leaved Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem. Calyx proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4 petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals below
the point. Empalement proper, none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis pinnatis, pinnis planis, cuneiformibus, sub apice
inciso-dentatis; capitalis terminalibus; squamis calycinis lanceolatis,
glabris; floribus luteis.

Protea with winged leaves, wings flat, wedge-shaped, deeply toothed at
the point; flower heads terminal; scales of the cup lance-shaped,
smooth; flowers yellow.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Flower complete, with its Seed-bud attached.

2. One of the petals of the flower, magnified.

3. Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, the Summit detached and magnified.

The Protea Anemonifolia is one of the only three species of the Genus,
we have, yet, received from New Holland. It was introduced to us, from
thence, in the year 1792, by Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, Hammersmith; is a
hardy green-house plant; grows to the height of three, or four feet; may
be propagated by cuttings, and flowers in August. It thrives best in a
mixture of light sandy loam, and peat earth, of each an equal quantity.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXIII.

SAGITTARIA LANCIFOLIA.

_Lance-leaved Arrowhead._


CLASS XXI. ORDER VII.

_MONŒCIA POLYANDRIA._ Chives and Pointals separate. Many Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

* _Masculi flores_ plures.

CALYX. Perianthium triphyllum; foliolis ovatis, concavis,
persistentibus.

COROLLA. Petala tria, subrotunda, obtusa, plana, patientia, calyci
triplo majora.

STAMINA. Filamenta plurima (viginti quatuor sæpe), subulata, in
capitulum congesta. Antheræ erectæ, longitudine calycis.

* _Feminei flores_ pauciores, infra masculos.

CALYX. Perianthium ut in mare.

COROLLA. Petala tria, ut in mare.

PISTILLA. Germina numerosa, compressa, in capitulum congesta, extrorsum
gibba, desinentia in stylos brevissimos. Stigmata acuta, persistentia.

PERICARPIUM nullum. Receptaculum globosum, semina in globum colligens.

SEMINA numerosa, oblonga, compressa, cincta longitudinaliter margine
membranaceo, lato, hinc gibbo, utrinque acuminato.

* _Male flowers_ many.

EMPALEMENT. Cup three leaves; leaflets egg-shaped, concave, remaining.

BLOSSOM. Three petals, roundish, blunt, flat, spreading, three times the
size of the cup.

CHIVES. Threads many (often twenty-four), awl-shaped, collected into a
little head. Tips upright, the length of the cup.

* _Female flowers_ fewer, beneath the males.

EMPALEMENT. Cup as in the male.

BLOSSOM. Three petals, as in the male.

POINTALS. Seed-buds numerous, flattened, forming a little head, hunched
on the outerside, ending in very short shafts. Summits pointed,
remaining.

SEED-VESSEL none. Receptacle globular, supporting the seeds in the form
of a globe.

SEEDS numerous, oblong, flattened, surrounded lengthways by a broad
skinny border, hunched on one side, tapering to each end.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Sagittaria foliis lanceolato-ovatis.

Arrowhead with leaves between lance and egg-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The whole plant in miniature.

2. A male flower divested of the petals.

3. One of the Chives, magnified.

4. A female flower without its petals.

5. The receptacle with its pointals, cut perpendicularly, magnified.

All the species of this Genus of plants are aquatic, or water plants,
and differ but little from each other, in their specific characters. Our
present subject is a native of the West India Islands, and requires the
atmosphere of a hot-house to induce it to flower. The blossoms, on the
lower part of the flower-stem, are all females; and those on the upper
part, males; they are all exceedingly delicate, as either wind, or wet,
destroys them. It increases by offsets from the root; but the seeds do
not ripen in this country. It must be kept in a pan or tub half filled
with earth, and the other half with water, but does not require to be
plunged in the tan-bed.

Our figure was taken from a plant which flowered this year 1803 (and,
for the first time in Britain, as we are informed by Mr. Anderson), in
the month of July, in the Collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXIV.

STRUTHIOLA TOMENTOSA.

_Downy-leaved Struthiola._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

PERIANTHIUM diphyllum. Corolla tubulosa, 4-fida. Nectarium glandulæ octo
fauci circumpositæ. Semen unum subbaccatum.

CUP two leaved. Blossom tubular, 4-cleft. Honey-cup 8 glands, placed
round the mouth of the blossom. One seed like a berry.

See STRUTHIOLA IMBRICATA, Pl. CXIII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Struthiola foliis ovatis, concavis, callosis, tomentosis, imbricatis;
nectario duodecim partito.

Struthiola with egg shaped leaves, concave, callous, downy and tiled;
honey-cup with twelve divisions.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The two leaves of the Empalement, magnified.

2. A Flower complete, magnified.

3. A Blossom cut open, to shew the situation of the chives, magnified.

4. A Seed-bud, with the Shaft and Summit, a little magnified.

The Clapham Collection is the only one in which this curious species of
Struthiola is, at present, to be seen. It was sent by Mr. Niven, from
the Cape, in 1799, and flowered, for the first time, last year 1802, in
the month of August, when our drawing was made. It is a tender
Green-house plant, as are most of this natural order, from that country;
being susceptible of too great moisture, either when exposed to the open
air during heavy rains in summer, or from over watering in winter.
Wherefore they are best preserved by sheltering them in an airy
situation during summer, and giving them but little water in winter. It
is encreased by cuttings, taken off in the month of May, planted in a
pot, filled to the margin with sandy loam, and plunged under a
hand-glass, in a shady border, without watering the loam. It grows most
flourishing in a mixture of sandy peat and loam; the peat about one
third part.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXV.

GLADIOLUS PYRAMIDATUS.

_Pyramidal-spiked Gladiolus._


CLASS III. ORDER I.

_TRIANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Three Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpartita, ringens. Stamina adscendentia.

BLOSSOM six-divided, gaping. Chives ascending.

See GLADIOLUS ROSEUS, Pl. XI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Gladiolus foliis ensiformibus, utrinque attenuatis, glabris; spathis
præmorsis; spicis pyramidatis; floribus imbricatis, subringentibus.

Gladiolus with sword-shaped leaves, tapered to both ends, and smooth;
sheaths appear bitten at the ends; spikes pyramid-shaped; flowers tiled,
a little gaping.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Part of a leaf.

2. The two Valves of the Sheath.

3. A Blossom cut open, to shew the insertion of the Chives.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summits.

This fine Gladiolus from the Cape of Good Hope, we believe, has not
flowered, or is to be found, in any other collection than that of the
Dowager Lady De Clifford, Paddington; where our drawing was taken in
August, this year, 1803. It grows to the height of three feet; and the
flowers continue to blow, from four to six at a time in succession, from
the base of the spike. It is a hardy bulb, and has every appearance of
being a free blower.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXVI.

ANCHUSA CAPENSIS.

_Cape Alkanet._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium quinquepartitum oblongum, teres, acutum, persistens.

COROLLA monopetala, infundibuliformis; tubus cylindricus, longitudine
calycis; limbus semiquinquefidus, obtusus, erecto-patens; faux clausa
squamulis quinque, convexis, prominentibus, oblongis, conniventibus.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, brevissima, in fauce corollæ. Antheræ
oblongæ, incumbentes, tectæ.

PISTILLUM. Germina quatuor. Stylus filiformis, longitudine staminum.
Stigma obtusum, emarginatum.

PERICARPIUM nullum; Calyx major, erectus, in sinu continens semina.

SEMINA quatuor, oblongiuscula, obtusa, gibba.

EMPALEMENT. Cup five-parted, oblong, cylindrical, pointed, remaining.

BLOSSOM one petal, funnel-shape; tube cylindric, the length of the cup;
border half-five-cleft, obtuse, from erect spreading; throat closed with
five small scales, convex, prominent, oblong, converging.

CHIVES. Five very short threads in the throat of the blossom. Tips
oblong, incumbent, covered.

POINTALS. Seed-buds four. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of the chives.
Summit blunt, notched at the end.

SEED-VESSEL none; the Cup larger and erect, containing the seeds in its
bosom.

SEEDS four, somewhat oblong, blunt, hunched.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Anchusa foliis lanceolatis, villosis, callosis; floribus
racemoso-paniculatis, cœruleis.

Alkanet with lance-shaped leaves, hairy, and callous; flowers grow in
bunches nearly panicled, blue.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement, natural size.

2. The same, magnified.

3. The Seed-buds and pointal, natural size.

4. The same magnified.

5. A Blossom cut open, magnified, to shew the scales upon the mouth,
with the situation of the chives.


This is the only species of the Genus we have yet seen from the Cape of
Good Hope; and, as it appears that Thunberg discovered but this solitary
instance, which he has given in his Prodromus Plantarum Capensium, under
the specific title we have here adopted, from him; he, perhaps, thought
himself warranted in so naming it; although naming plants from the
country where they are first found requires but little reasoning to shew
its impropriety. It is a hardy green-house plant, but from all
appearance, like the most of this natural order, rather short-lived. It
grows freely in a mixture of loam and sandy peat; and there is every
appearance that the seeds will ripen, the only method by which there is
any likelihood of its being perpetuated.

The plant, before flowering, does not grow above six inches high; but
the flower-stem rises near eighteen inches. Our figure was taken from a
plant in the Hibbertian Collection; where it flowered for the first time
in England in the month of July 1803; having been sent home, by Mr.
Niven, from the Cape, in 1800.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXVII.

PROTEA TRITERNATA.

_Cluster-headed Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA quadrifida seu quadripetala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis
infra apicem. Calyx proprius nullus.

SEMINA solitaria.

BLOSSOM four-cleft or four petals. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the point. Empalement proper, none.

SEEDS solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis bipinnatis, brevibus, filiformibus, confertis, glabris;
floribus terminalibus, umbellatis; pedunculis bracteis, capitulis
longioribus; squamis calycinis subulatis, hirtis.

Protea with doubly winged leaves, short, thread-shaped, crowded and
smooth; flowers terminate the branches in umbels; fruit stalks with
floral leaves, and longer than the small heads; scales of the cup
awl-shaped and hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Leaf.

2. A Flower.

3. One of the Petals of the flower, magnified.

4. The Seed bud, Shaft and Summit, the Summit detached, magnified.

5. The common Cup of one of the small heads of flowers.

This beautiful divided leaved Protea has been named, as above, by
Thunberg, in his Dissertatio de Protea, n. 7, and in his Prodromus
plantarum capensium 25. It is rather a delicate plant, and subject to
lose the lower leaves from the stem, which takes something from the
beauty of its habit. The young leaves, when they first appear, have a
downy character, which disappears as they grow firm. The stem has
likewise, in its young state, a tendency to downiness, which is not
discovered on the old wood; and is, where the leaves are extant, quite
covered by them. It grows to the height of three feet, is propagated by
cuttings, and flowers in the month of July. Our figure was taken from a
plant in the Hibbertian Collection, which was raised from Cape seeds in
1800, sent from thence by Mr. Niven.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXVIII.

GERANIUM CORONOPIFOLIUM.

_Buck’s-horn-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus, penta-coccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five summits. Fruit furnished with long awns, five dry
berries.

See GERANIUM GRANDIFLORUM, Pl. XII. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis subcuneatis, apice inciso-dentatis, canescentibus,
petiolis longissimis; pedunculis subtrifloris; corollis pallidè
violaceis; caulê suffruticoso; staminibus quinque fertilibus.

Geranium with nearly wedge-shaped leaves, deeply toothed at the end,
whitish and very long foot-stalks; flower stems mostly three-flowered;
blossoms pale purple; stem rather woody; five fertile chives.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower and a Bud from a seedling variety of this plant, by an
intermixture of the farina of Geranium tricolor.

2. The Cup, which is solid and five-leaved.

3. The Chives and Pointal, magnified.

4. The same cut open, magnified.

5. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summits, magnified.

The Geranium coronopifolium is one of those species we may fairly
denominate biennial; for such is certainly the G. tricolor, G.
Oenothera, G. tomentosum, &c. and as such must be propagated every year
to have a succession of them. It is readily increased by putting the
cuttings into small pots, and plunging them in the heat of a hot-bed or
hot-house, early in the month of March; which plants will flower in
September. It was first introduced to the Kew Gardens by Mr. Masson in
1792. The plant very delicate, and should be kept in a dry part of the
green-house, in a mixture of sandy peat and rich earth. Our figure is
from a plant in the Hibbertian Collection; where, likewise, we found the
variety of which a flower is given on the plate. Mr. Allen informs us,
he procured the Var. by approximating a plant of this species to the G.
tricolor; first impregnating the summits of the flower of G.
coronopifolium, with the pollen from the tips of the G. tricolor, a
method much practised of late for the production of varieties, in many
genera.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXXXIX.

LOBELIA CORONOPIFOLIA.

_Buck’s-horn-leaved Lobelia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER VI.

_SYNGENESIA MONOGAMIA._ Tips united. Flowers simple.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX 5-fidus. Corolla 1-petala, irregularis. Capsula infera, 2-seu
3-locularis.

CUP 5-cleft. Blossom 1-petal, irregular. Capsule beneath, 2 or 3-celled.

See LOBELIA PINIFOLIA, Pl. CCLXXIII. Vol. IV.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lobelia foliis lanceolatis, dentatis, glabris; floribus solitariis,
axillaribus; pedunculis elongatis; stigmatibus obtusis, pilosis.

Lobelia with lance-shaped leaves, toothed and smooth; flowers solitary,
from the base of the leaves; foot-stalks lengthened; summits blunt,
hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Chives magnified.

2. The Cup, Chives, and Pointal, the Summit detached, magnified.


The character of most of the Lobelias from the Cape, and elsewhere, is,
that they are either annual or biennial, and can scarcely be considered
as shrubs. Our present subject is a biennial from the Cape of Good Hope,
flowers the first year from the seed, if sown in March, and may be
preserved a second year; but, as it seeds so abundantly, it is scarce
worth the pains to preserve it, as the plants of one year’s growth are
so much handsomer than those preserved through the winter. It flowers
from July till October, and should be kept in sandy peat earth.

The L. coronopifolia was introduced to the Kew Collection in 1787, by
Mr. F. Masson, and is now in most collections.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXL.

LOBELIA GRACILIS.

_Slender-stemed Lobelia._


CLASS XIX. ORDER VI.

_SYNGENESIA MONOGAMIA._ Tips united. Flowers simple.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX 5-fidus. Corolla monopetala, irregularis. Capsula infera, 2-seu
3-locularis.

CUP 5-cleft. Blossom one petal, irregular. Capsule beneath, 2 or
3-celled.

See LOBELIA PINIFOLIA, Pl. CCLXXIII. Vol. IV.

SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lobelia foliis inferioribus ovatis, sinuatis, superioribus lanceolatis,
dentatis; petalis duobus minoribus barbatis; floribus spicatis;
stigmatibus bifidis.

Lobelia with the lower leaves egg-shaped and scollopped, the upper ones
lance-shaped and toothed; the two smaller petals bearded; flowers grow
in spikes; summits two-cleft.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom cut open, with the chives in their place, magnified.

2. The Cup, Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit; the Summit detached and
magnified.


This most delicate little plant, of which our figure represents the
whole, was raised in 1801, from Cape seeds, sent by Mr. Niven from
thence, for the Clapham gardens; where our drawing was made this year,
1803, in the month of August. It is an annual plant, producing its seeds
freely, as do most species of this genus, which should be sown in the
month of March, in light sandy peat, and transplanted about May.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLI.

PHASEOLUS CARACALLA.

_Snail-Flower Kidney-Bean._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Chives in two sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, bilabiatum; labio superiori emarginato,
inferiore tridentato.

COROLLA papillionacea.

_Vexillum_, cordatum, obtusum, emarginatum, reclinatum, lateribus
reflexis.

_Alæ_, ovatæ, longitudine vexilli, unguibus longis insidentes.

_Carina_, angusta, spiraliter contra solem revoluta.

STAMINA. Filamenta diadelpha, (simplex et novemfidum) intra carinam,
spiralia. Antheræ decem, simplices.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, compressum villosum. Stylus filiformis,
spiraliter inflexus, superne pubescens. Stigma obtusum, crassiusculum,
villosum.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen longum, rectum, coriaceum, obtusum cum acumine.

SEMINA reniformia, oblonga, compressa.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, two-lipped, upper lip notched at the end,
lower three-toothed.

BLOSSOM butterfly-shaped.

_Standard_, heart-shaped, blunt, notched at the top, reclined, reflexed
at the sides.

_Wings_, egg-shaped, the length of the Standard, terminating in long
claws.

_Keel_, narrow, twisted spirally contrary to the sun.

CHIVES. Threads in two sets, (simple and nine-cleft,) within the keel,
spiral. Tips ten, simple.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, flattened, hairy. Shaft thread-shaped,
spirally bent inwards, downy above. Summit blunt, thickish, hairy.

SEED VESSEL. A long pod, straight, leathery, blunt with a point.

SEEDS kidney-shaped, oblong, flattened.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Phaseolus caule volubili; vexillis, carinaque spiraliter convolutis.

Kidney-bean with a twining stem; standards and keel spirally twisted
from the left to the right.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.

2. The Standard.

3. One of the wings, shewn from the outside.

4. One of the wings, shewn from the inside.

5. The Keel.

6. The Chives.

7. The Pointal.

As a singular vegetable production, we have given a specimen of this
most curious flower, but not as a novelty, as it is, certainly, rather
common, the seeds having frequently been brought to us from Portugal,
(to which country it was first introduced from Brasil in South America),
ever since the year 1690. It is a climbing plant and must be kept in the
hot-house, is propagated by seeds or cuttings, grows to the height of 12
or 14 feet, and should be planted in rich earth. The flowers are
produced about August; they are very fragrant, but have not much
duration, and the plant has much the resemblance of the common scarlet
kidney-bean.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLII.

COBBEA SCANDENS.

_Climbing Cobbea._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, semiquinquefidum; laciniis cordatis,
mucronatis, patentibus, persistens.

COROLLA monopetala, campanulata, versus basin arctata, quinquefida;
laciniis concavis, trilobis, ciliatis; squamulæ quinque lanatæ, ad basin
sinus tubi, conniventes.

_Nectarium_, corpus carnosum, quinquangulare, decem sulcatum, germen
cingens.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, squamulis corollæ orta, declinata. Antheræ
incumbentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum, sulcatum. Stylus filiformis, declinatus,
staminibus longior. Stigmata tria, plana, recurvata.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, trilocularis, trivalvis.

SEMINA plurima, valvulis affixa, compressa, imbricata.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, half five-cleft; segments heart-shaped, ending
in a point, spreading, persistent.

BLOSSOM one-petal, bell-shaped, narrowed towards the base, five-cleft;
segments concave, three-lobed, fringed; five woolly scales at the base
of the bosom of the tube closing upon each other.

_Honey-cup_, a fleshy body, five-angled, ten-furrowed, embracing the
seed-bud.

CHIVES. Five threads, arising from the scales of the blossom, declined.
Tips lying upon the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped, furrowed. Shaft thread-shaped, declined,
longer than the threads. Summits three, flat, turned back.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, three cells, three valves.

SEEDS many, fixed to the valves, flat, tiled.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Cobbea foliis conjugatis, cirrhosis; floribus solitariis, pedunculis
longissimis; caule scandenti.

Cobbea with conjugate leaves terminating in a tendril; flowers solitary,
foot-stalks very long; stem climbing.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom cut and spread open, with the Chives in their place.

2. The Empalement, Honey cup, Seed-bud, Shaft and Summits.


The specimen, from which our drawing was taken, was communicated by Mrs.
Long, from the Collection of the Honourable Charles Long, of Bromley
Hill, Kent; where, we believe, the only plant of this fine Genus is at
present to be found in Britain; and where it has flowered, for the first
time, this year, in the month of September, 1803. It is a native of the
East Indies, and must be kept as a hot-house plant; is propagated by
cuttings, and thrives in rich earth; will grow, if permitted, to the
height of twenty feet or more, and is still in flower this present month
of November.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLIII.

BLANDFORDIA CORDATA.

_Heart-shape-leaved Blandfordia._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, semiquinquefidum; laciniis concavis,
ovatis, obtusis, erectis; persistens.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, oblongo-linearia, subtruncata, patentia, calyci
inserta.

_Nectarium_ urceolatum, membranaceum, germen cingens; limbo
quinque-lobo, laciniis clavatis, capitatis.

STAMINA. Filamenta nulla. Antheræ quinque, subrotundæ, didymæ; nectarii
margini, inter lacinias limbi, affixæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum. Stylus brevissimus, erectus. Stigma
obsoletum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula oblonga, unilocularis, bivalvis.

SEMINA plurima, minuta, glabra.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, half-five-cleft; Segments concave, egg-shaped,
blunt, upright; remaining.

BLOSSOM. Five petals, oblong-linear, appearing rather cut off at the
ends, spreading, inserted into the cup.

_Honey-cup_ pitcher-shaped, skinny, surrounding the seed-bud; border
five-lobed, segments club-shaped, and headed.

CHIVES. Threads none. Tips five, roundish, double; fixed, between the
segments of the border, upon the margin of the honey-cup.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish. Shaft very short, upright. Summit obsolete.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule oblong, one cell, two valves.

SEEDS many, small, smooth.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Blandfordia foliis cordatis, reticulatis, crenato-dentatis, floribus
spicatis.

Blandfordia with leaves heart-shaped, netted, and between scolloped and
toothed; flowers grow in spikes.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup, natural size.

2. The same, magnified.

3. A Petal, magnified.

4. The Honey-cup, with the Chives, magnified.

5. The same, spread open, shewn from the outside.

6. The same, shewn from the inside.

7. The Seed-bud, natural size.

8. The same, magnified.

The Blandfordia cordata was first observed by Mr. J. Fraser, in the year
1786, on the banks of the Savannah river, near its source, in Georgia,
North America; but was not introduced to us until the year 1800, when it
was brought to England, amongst many other novelties, by that gentleman.
It is, as are most of the plants of that country, rather too tender to
resist the severity of our winters; and should be protected, either in
the green-house, or in the coolest and shadiest part of the hot-house;
where, if it is kept the year through, it will flourish, and flower
about the month of June. It is increased by parting the roots about
April; delights in moisture and shade; thriving most in a light peat
soil, with a small mixture of sandy loam. This plant, from its general
habit, would at first sight be taken for a species of Tiarella, or
Heuchera, to both which it bears great resemblance, being all, likewise,
natives of the same clime; but the strongly differing characters, in the
parts of fructification, prevent its being placed to either of those
genera. The honey-cup, it is true, might, perhaps, with reason, be
considered as the connected threads of ten chives, and what we take to
be the segments of its border, set down as so many sterile ones to make
up this number. Thus, the plant would be transmuted to the XVI class;
but, from our best judgment, we have placed it, as above, in the V.

Our figure is from a specimen communicated by the Right Hon. the Marquis
of Blandford, from his magnificent gardens at White Knights, near
Reading, Berks. Little need be urged for the propriety of our naming a
plant from the Marquis of Blandford; and thus, dedicating this small
part of our labours to his lordship; as few, at present, patronize the
science, through all its branches, with so much vigour and liberality,
or who have equal knowledge in its theory and practice.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLIV.

EPIDENDRUM ENSIFOLIUM.

_Sword shaped-leaved Epidendrum._


CLASS XX. ORDER I.

_GYNANDRIA DIANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Two Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

NECTARIUM turbinatum, obliquum, reflexum.

HONEY-CUP top-shaped, oblique and reflexed.

See Pl. XIII. Vol. I. EPIDENDRUM COCHLEATUM.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Epidendrum scapo tereti, lævi; foliis ensiformibus; petalis lanceolatis
glabris; labio lanceolato, recurvato, maculato.

Epidendrum with a round smooth stem; leaves sword-shaped; petals
lance-shaped, smooth; lip lance-shaped, recurved and spotted.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The lip, detached from the flower.

2. A Flower from which the lip has been separated.


The Sword-shaped-leaved Epidendrum is a native of China and Japan, was
cultivated, before 1792, in the gardens of the Marchioness of
Rockingham, at Hillindon, Middlesex. It has more the habit and character
of Limodorum than Epidendrum, to which genus it was first placed; and,
like the Epidendrum sinense of this work, Plate CCXVI. Vol. III.
requires but little heat to keep it in health; preferring a sandy loam
to any other matter, for its nourishment. It, like the forenamed, and
several other species of this genus, or rather of the genus Limodorum,
not being thick-leaved, or parasitic, where indigenous, are of
consequence much easier preserved and increased than those of that
description. Its flowers, which are produced in September or October,
are very fragrant, particularly in the evening, continue in perfection
above a month. It is propagated by parting the roots in the month of
May.

Our drawing was made from a plant in the Hibbertian Collection.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLV.

HYACINTHUS CORYMBOSUS.

_Linear-leaved Cape Hyacinth._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus.

COROLLA monopetala, campanulata; limbus sexfidus, reflexus.

_Nectarium_; pori tres melliferi ad apicem germinis.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, breviora. Antheræ conniventes.

PISTILLUM. Germen superum, rotundo-trigonum, trisulcum. Stylus simplex,
corolla brevior. Stigma obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, triquetra, trilocularis, trivalvis.

SEMINA bina (sæpius,) subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT none.

BLOSSOM one petal, bell-shaped; border six-cleft, reflexed.

_Honey-cup_, three honied pores at the tip of the seed-bud.

CHIVES. Six threads awl-shaped, shorter. Tips converging.

POINTAL. Seed-bud above, round-three-cornered, three-furrowed. Shaft
simple, shorter than the blossom. Summit blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsula roundish, three-sided, three-celled, three-valved.

SEEDS in pairs (often,) roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Hyacinthus corollis infundibuliformibus, corymbosis, erectis; scapo
foliis linearibus breviore.

Hyacinth with funnel-shaped blossoms, growing in a broad topped spike,
upright; flower-stem shorter than the leaves, which are linear.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Blossom, with the Chives in their place, one Chive detached,
magnified.

2. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, the Summit detached, magnified.


Amongst the plants, of this natural order, from the Cape of Good Hope,
we find such an intermixture of character, in the different parts of
fructification; that, if some latitude is not taken in referring them to
some of the old genera, almost every fresh subject, we discover, would
require a new one. This plant, although we have placed it to Hyacinthus,
with those that have gone before us, has juster claims to Drimia,
Polyanthes or Scilla; for it is wanting in the essential characters of
Hyacinthus, being unfurnished with the honied pores, and having the
chives inserted into the tube of the blossom, three of which are,
alternately, double the length of the others. To Drimia, a new genus of
Professor Jacquin, and a mutilation of Hyacinthus, it is most allied;
but, we have not thought fit to alter its known station, as, without
doubt, the multiplication of genera, or altering the place of known
plants, adds but to the difficulties of a most intricate, though
pleasing study. It is a hardy green-house bulb; delights in a mixture of
peat earth and sandy loam; increases by offsets, and flowers in October
or November. Our figure was made from a plant in the Nursery of Mr.
Williams of Turnham Green, who first imported it in 1800. It is said, by
Koenig, to grow in pasture lands near the Cape town, and was first
noticed there by him.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLVI.

CASUARINA STRICTA.

_Upright Casuarina._


CLASS XXI. ORDER I.

_MONOECIA MONANDRIA._ Chives and Pointal separate. One Chive.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

* _Masculi flores._

CALYX. Amentum filiforme, imbricatum, squamis minutis, unifloris.

COROLLA. Squamulæ bipartitæ, ovatæ, minutæ.

STAMINA. Filamentum unicum, capillare, squama amenti longius. Anthera
didyma.

* _Feminei flores in eadem arbore._

CALYX. Amentum ovato-cylindricum; squamis ovatis, acutis, carinatis,
ciliatis.

COROLLA nulla.

PISTILLUM. Germen minutum. Stylus filiformis, longus, exsertus, bifidus.
Stigmata duo.

PERICARPIUM. Strobilus squamis bivalvibus, perpendiculariter
dehiscentibus.

SEMINA solitaria, conica, margine membranacea.

* _Male flowers._

EMPALEMENT. Catkin thread-shape, tiled with small one-flowered scales.

BLOSSOM. Scales two-parted, ovate, minute.

CHIVES. Thread one, hair-like, longer than the scale of the catkin. Tip
double.

* _Female flowers on the same plant._

EMPALEMENT. Catkin ovate-cylindric, with egg-shaped, acute, keeled,
tiled scales.

BLOSSOM none.

POINTAL. Seed-bud minute. Shaft thread-shaped, long, without, two-cleft.
Summits two.

SEED VESSEL. Cone with two-valved scales, splitting perpendicularly.

SEEDS solitary, conical, with a skinny edge.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Casuarina dioica ramulellis erectis; strobilorum squamis inermibus;
vaginis masculis multi-fidis, glabris.

Casuarina with chives and pointals distinct, and upright branchlets;
scales of the cones naked, male sheaths many-parted, smooth.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Catkin, or terminal part of a male branchlet, magnified slightly.

2. The Shaft and Summit of a female floret.

3. The Cone, whilst yet in flower.

4. The same magnified.

The Casuarina stricta is a native of New South Wales, and was
introduced, by Messrs. Kennedy and Lee, in the year 1775. It is a hardy
green-house plant, grows to the height of ten or twelve feet before it
flowers, which is in November. It is perfectly dioicous; the male and
female blossoms, never coming on the same plant, and either have little
to recommend them for beauty; their singularity is what should sooner
attract our notice. The two figures, on the plate, which are the male
and female, were taken from two plants, in flower, at the same time, in
the collection of the Dowager Lady de Clifford, Paddington. All the
species, hitherto discovered, since the first, upon which the genus was
formed, the C. equisetifolia has, like this, the male and female parts
of fructification on different plants; that only, being monoicous, or
with the male and female parts on the same plant.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLVII.

SOPHORA CAPENSIS.

_Vetch-leaved Sophora._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, breve, campanulatum, basi superne
gibbum; ore quinque-dentato, obliquo, obtuso.

COROLLA papillionacea, pentapetala.

_Vexillum_ oblongum, sensim latius, rectum, lateribus reflexis.

_Alæ_ duæ, oblongæ, basi appendiculatæ, longitudine vexilli.

_Carina_ dipetala; petalis alis conformibus, marginibus inferioribus
approximatis, navicularibus.

STAMINA. Filamenta decem, distincta, parallela, subulata, longitudine
corollæ, intra carina recondita. Antheræ minimæ, assurgentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, teres. Stylus magnitudine et situ staminum.
Stigma obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen longissimum, tenue, uniloculare, ad semina nodosum.

SEMINA plurima, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one-leaf, short, bell-shaped, hunched at the base on the
upper side; mouth five-toothed, oblique, obtuse.

BLOSSOM butterfly-shaped, five petalled.

_Standard_ oblong, gradually wider, straight, reflexed at the sides.

_Wings_ two, oblong, appendicled at the base, the length of the
standard.

_Keel_ two petalled with the petals conformable to the wings, the lower
margins approaching and boat-shaped.

CHIVES. Ten threads, distinct, parallel, and shaped, the length of, the
blossom, within the keel. Tips very small, turned upwards.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong, cylindrical. Shaft the size and situation of
the chives. Summit blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Pod very long, slender, one-celled, knobbed at the seeds.

SEEDS many, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Sophora foliis pinnatis; foliolis lanceolatis, mucronatis, subtus
tomentosis; caule fruticoso.

Sophora with winged leaves; leaflets lance-shaped, pointed, downy
beneath; stem shrubby.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.

2. The Standard, or upper Petal.

3. One side Petal, or Wing of the Blossom.

4. One of the Petals of the Keel.

5. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

6. One of the Chives, magnified.

7. The Pointal, natural size.

This is a plant of considerable size at the Cape of Good Hope, so much
so, as to be looked upon there rather as a tree, than shrub. It was
first sent to England, in the year 1773, by Mr. F. Masson; is a hardy
green-house plant; thrives in a mixture of loam and peat, and flowers in
August, or September. There is no method, yet discovered, to propagate
it in this country; but, as seeds are so common of this plant, near Cape
town, there is scarce a parcel arrives, from thence, which does not
contain some of them.

Among the new modern vagaries in botany, this genus has been thought, by
the French botanists, (those admirable perplexers of natural order,) to
be better divided in two, as some of the species happen to have the
joints of the pods a little more swelled than others. How so trifling a
variation, and that in a part of the plant which is known to vary, in
almost every genus, through most of the species, where they are
numerous; should have been deemed of sufficient moment to alter the
names of so many established plants, and those determined by such
authority as Linnæus, we are at a loss to determine; and are equally
astonished that Willdenow should have followed them. The new genus is
termed Podalyria, and to which, this plant is attached in the new
system.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLVIII.

SCHOTIA SPECIOSA.

_Lentiscus leaved Schotia._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, coloratum; tubus turbinatus,
subcompressus, carnosus; persistens; limbus semiquinquefidus; laciniis
ovatis, concavis, obtusis, erectis, æqualibus.

COROLLA. Petala quinque, tubo calycis imposita, oblonga, concava,
obtusa, erecta, æqualia, lateribus mutuò incumbentia, sessilia, laciniis
calycinis duplo longiora.

STAMINA. Filamenta decem, subulata, erecta, petalis paulo longiora, tubo
calycis in orbem inserta. Antheræ oblongæ, incumbentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen oblongum, compressum, pedicellatum. Stylus filiformis,
longitudine staminum. Stigma simplex, obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen pedicellatum.

SEMINA bina, ossea, subovata, magna.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, coloured; tube top-shaped, rather flattened,
fleshy; permanent; border half five-cleft; segments egg-shaped, concave,
blunt, upright, equal.

BLOSSOM. Five petals, placed on the tube of the cup, oblong, concave,
blunt, upright, equal, lying over each other at the sides, sitting,
twice as long as the segments of the cup.

CHIVES. Ten threads, awl-shaped, upright, a little longer than the
petals, inserted in a ring into the tube of the cup. Tips oblong, laying
on the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud oblong; flattened, with a foot-stalk. Shaft
thread-shaped, the length of the chives. Summit simple, blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. A pod with a foot-stalk.

SEEDS two, bony, a little egg-shaped, large.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Schotia foliis pinnatis; foliolis ovatis, mucronatis; floribus cymosis,
profundé carneis.

Schotia with winged leaves; leaflets egg-shaped, terminating in a point;
flowers in tufts and of a deep flesh colour.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower cut and spread open, shewn from the outside.

2. The same, shewn from the inside.

3. A Flower, with the petals, and border of the Cup removed, to shew the
insertion of the Chives into the tube of the Cup.

4. The Seed-bud, Shaft and Summit, with the tube of the Cup cut in
halves.


Our present subject stood formerly attached to the genus Guaiacum, under
the title of G. affrum, and has been long cultivated in Britain and
Holland, perhaps more than a century. Professor Jacquin, in his
_Collectanea ad Bot._ &c. Vol. I. p. 93, thought fit to constitute it a
new genus, naming it after his companion R. van der Schot. About the
same time, the year 1786, a monograph on this plant was published at
Manheim, by Fred. Casim. Medikus, under the name of Theodora Speciosa;
but Jacquin’s title has universally obtained. To preserve this plant in
good health, it should be kept in the coolest part of the hot-house, or
in a dry stove, the warmth of a common green-house being insufficient to
preserve its foliage through the winter months. It is a native of all
that extent of the African coast from Senegal river, to the Cape of Good
Hope, where it grows to the height of twenty feet and upwards. The
seeds, which are frequently imported, keep many years in a vegetative
state, and is, almost, the only method by which it can be propagated;
for little success can be hoped, either from layers, or cuttings. It
flowers from October till December, delighting in a light sandy loam.
Perhaps, no plant which has been as long in cultivation with us, has so
seldom been seen to flower; for, although the plants in the Kew gardens
and elsewhere, are of a considerable size, yet have we few instances of
its flowering, no mention being made of its time of inflorescence in the
catalogue of that collection.

From a plant, still in flower, this present December 1803, which was
literally covered with blossoms above two feet from its top, our drawing
was taken; it is in the valuable and extensive collection of Isaac
Swainson, Esq. Twickenham; which for scientific arrangement and richness
in hardy shrubs and herbaceous plants, in particular, yields to no
private or public collection we know of; and which, the extreme urbanity
of the liberal proprietor, is at all times open, to every botanist or
collector.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCXLIX.

PROTEA DECUMBENS.

_Slender-stemed Protea._


CLASS IV. ORDER I.

_TETRANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Four Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 4-fida seu 4-petala. Antheræ lineares, insertæ petalis infra
apicem.

CALYX proprius nullus. Semina solitaria.

BLOSSOM 4-cleft or 4-petalled. Tips linear, inserted into the petals
below the point.

CUP, proper, none. Seeds solitary.

See PROTEA FORMOSA, Pl. XVII. Vol. I.

SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Protea foliis bi-pinnatis, filiformibus; capitulis terminalibus,
sessilibus; floribus incarnatis, bracteolatis; caule tenue, decumbente.

Protea with doubly winged leaves, thread-shaped; small heads of flowers
sitting close on the ends of the branches; flowers flesh-coloured with
small floral leaves; stem slender and bending downwards.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Leaf.

2. One of the Floral Leaves, magnified.

3. A Floret, complete.

4. One of the Petals, with its Chive at the point, magnified.

5. The Pointal, with the Summit detached and magnified.

From the great number of new species of the divided leaved Proteas, we
are led to conjecture, that they are as numerous as those with entire
leaves. The P. decumbens, from the different specimens we have seen,
appears to branch into many varieties; some with hairy leaves and stems,
some with very close thick set leaves, and some, with both stems and
leaves, quite smooth. They are all, nevertheless, very slender stemed;
and, there is little doubt but, in their natural state, they rest on the
ground; although in the fashion we train them here, they have the
appearance of being erect. This species is found at a considerable
distance from the Cape Town, on the summits of dry sandy hills;
wherefore, it must be kept in the most airy part of the green-house, and
watered but seldom. The stem does not grow more than eighteen inches
long, and frequently flowers, as was the case in the present instance,
when not more than twelve. It is propagated, readily, from cuttings made
in the month of May, if treated in the method already directed for the
increase of these plants. The earth in which it should be planted is, a
light sandy bright loam. Our drawing was taken in the month of July,
1802, from a plant in the Hibbertian Collection, to which it was
introduced by Mr. Niven, in the year 1800.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCL.

LACHENALIA PUSTULATA.

_Rough-leaved Lachenalia._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA sexpetala, infera; petalis tribus infera; petalis tribus
interioribus longioribus. Stamina erecta. Capsula sub-ovata, trialata.
Semina globosa.

BLOSSOM 6-petals, beneath; the three inner petals the longest. Chives
erect. Capsule nearly egg-shaped, three-winged. Seeds globular.

See LACHENALIA PENDULA, Pl. XLI. Vol. I.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Lachenalia foliis geminis, lanceolato-linearibus, dense facie
pustulatis; scapo reclinato; floribus sub-campanulatis, albo-virentibus.

Lachenalia with leaves in pairs, linearly-lance-shaped, thickly covered
with pustules on the face; stem bent downwards; flowers rather
bell-shaped, of a whitish green.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A Flower.

2. The same, cut open, with the Chives in their place.

3. The Pointal.

The drawing, from which our figure of this species of Lachenalia was
taken, was made from a plant communicated by Isaac Swainson, Esq. from
his Botanic Gardens, Twickenham, Middlesex; where it is still in flower,
this present month of January, 1804; and where we believe it is only to
be met with at present in this kingdom. It is one of the largest growing
plants of the genus, the leaves when in a soil it approves attaining the
length of eighteen inches, or more. It is as hardy as any of the tribe,
very fragrant, easily preserved, increasing freely by the root, and
flowering with certainty when the bulb has become of a sufficient size.
It grows best in a mixture of light loam and peat, about two-thirds
loam, and one of peat.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLI.

PULTENÆA RUBIÆFOLIA.

_Madder-leaved Pultenæa._


CLASS X. ORDER I.

_DECANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Ten Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX quinque-dentatus, utrinque appendiculatus. Corolla papillionacea,
alis vexillo brevioribus. Legumen uniloculare, dispermum.

CUP five-toothed, with an appendage on each side. Blossom
butterfly-shaped, with the wings shorter than the standard. Pod of one
cell with two seeds.

See PULTENÆA DAPHNOIDES, Pl. XCVIII. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Pultenæa foliis ternis, verticillatis, lanceolatis, serratis, rigidis;
floribus capitatis, cæruleo-purpureis.

Pultenæa with leaves growing by threes in whorls, lance-shaped, sawed
and harsh; flowers grow in heads, and of a bluish purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.

2. The Standard.

3. One of the Wings.

4. The two Petals of the Keel.

5. The Chives and Pointal.

6. The same, magnified.

7. The Pointal.

8. A ripe Seed-pod, open.

9. One of the Seeds, of its natural size when ripe.

Here we find another hiatus to fill up, or pass over; either a new genus
is to be formed for this plant, or we must not boggle at trifles, and
skip over one of the essential characters of Dr. Smith’s Pultenæas, the
appendicles or props at the side of the cup, which are wanting in this
plant, though agreeing in every other. We have, however, until the
Doctor shall think fit to regulate these new, numerous and intricate
genera and species from New Holland, made no scruple to add this plant,
as another species, to the genus Pultenæa. It is a low growing bushy
shrub, seldom attaining more than a foot in height; is very apt to be
destroyed by damp in winter, and is not to be propagated but by seeds,
which, however, it perfects in this country. The blossoms begin to
appear in May, and continue in succession through the summer months of
June, July, and August. It should be kept warm and dry in winter,
growing with most luxuriance in light sandy peat earth, and flowering
the second year from the seed. This plant was first raised in 1792, by
Messrs. Lee and Kennedy, at their nursery, Hammersmith, where our
drawing was taken.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLII.

HELONIAS BULLATA.

_Spear-leaved Helonias._


CLASS VI. ORDER III.

_HEXANDRIA TRIGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX nullus.

COROLLA. Petala sex, oblonga, æqualia, decidua.

STAMINA. Filamenta sex, subulata, corolla paulo longiora. Antheræ
incumbentes.

PISTILLUM. Germen subrotundum, trigonum. Styli tres, breves, reflexi.
Stigmata obtusa.

PERICARPIUM. Capsula subrotunda, trilocularis.

SEMINA numerosa, angulata, minima.

EMPALEMENT, none.

BLOSSOM. Six petals, oblong, equal, deciduous.

CHIVES. Six threads, awl-shaped, a little longer than the blossom. Tips
lying on the threads.

POINTAL. Seed-bud roundish, three-sided. Shafts three, short and
reflexed. Summits obtuse.

SEED-VESSEL. Capsule roundish, three-celled.

SEEDS numerous, angulated, very small.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Helonias foliis lanceolatis, nervosis; bracteis cordato-lanceolatis.

Helonias with lance-shaped, nerved leaves; floral leaves between lance
and heart-shaped.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. Flower, complete.

2. The Chives and Pointal, natural size.

3. The same, magnified.

All the species of this genus, yet discovered, are natives of North
America, and are considered as hardy herbaceous plants; the winters of
this country not being too severe for them; although they are found as
far south as Carolina, yet they are more plentiful in Pennsylvania,
about Philadelphia. They flourish most in a shady, moist situation; and
increase, freely, by parting the roots in the month of March. The
flowers are produced in May, the flower-stem increasing in length, till
the flowers are entirely decayed. The Helonias bullata has been an
inhabitant of our gardens ever since the year 1758, when it was
introduced by Mr. Ph. Miller, and cultivated by him at Chelsea. See
Mill. ic. 181. t. 272.

Our drawing was made at the Nursery, Hammersmith, in June 1801.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLIII.

ASPALATHUS CRASSIFOLIUS.

_Thick-leaved Aspalathus._


CLASS XVII. ORDER IV.

_DIADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads in two sets. Ten Chives.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, semiquinquefidum; laciniis acuminatis,
æqualibus, superiore longiore.

COROLLA papillionacea.

_Vexillum_ compressum, adscendens, obovatum, externe sæpius hirsutum,
obtusum cum acumine.

_Alæ_ lunulatæ, obtusæ, patulæ, vexillo breviores.

_Carina_ bifida, alis conformis.

STAMINA. Filamenta decem, connata in vaginam, superne dehiscentem
longitudinaliter, adscendentia. Antheræ oblongæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen ovatum. Stylus simplex, adscendens. Stigma acutum.

PERICARPIUM. Legumen ovatum, muticum.

SEMINA sæpius duo, reniformia.

OBS. _Singulare huic sunt folia ex eadem gemma plura in planta
frutescente._

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, half-five-cleft; segments tapered, equal, the
upper one longer.

BLOSSOM butterfly-shape.

_Standard_ compressed, ascending, inversely egg-shaped, often hairy on
the outside, obtuse with a point.

_Wings_ half-moon-shaped, obtuse, spreading, shorter than the standard.

_Keel_ two-cleft, like the wing.

CHIVES. Ten threads, united into a sheath, gaping longitudinally at top,
ascending. Tips oblong.

POINTAL. Seed-bud egg-shaped. Shaft simple, ascending. Summit pointed.

SEED VESSEL. Pod egg-shaped, beardless.

SEEDS frequently two, kidney-shaped.

OBS. _This genus is singular in having several leaves from the same bud,
on a shrubby plant._


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Aspalathus foliis fasciculatis, carnosis, teretibus, glabris, apicibus
setaceis; floribus capitatis, terminalibus; calycibus bracteatis.

Aspalathus with leaves bundled, fleshy, cylindrical, smooth and bristled
at the point; flowers grow in heads at the end of the branches; cups
with floral leaves.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup.

2. The Standard.

3. One of the Wings.

4. The Keel.

5. The Chives and Pointal.

6. The Chives, spread open and magnified.

7. The Pointal.

From the number of specimens in the herbarium of G. Hibbert, Esq. which
we should refer to this genus; it stands fair to rival, in number of
species, every other, natives of the Cape of Good Hope; with the
exception of Erica, Geranium, and Protea. This species has many
varieties, and we are in doubt whether this is not one from the A.
carnosa, or A. pinguis of Thunberg; for although, the cup, in the one,
may differ, in having the segments described as pointed; and in the
other, the leaves may be rather three-sided; yet, may our plant be no
more than a slight variation from either of them: but this we cannot
decide without living plants of each, for dried specimens would not
determine the fact.

This plant was introduced to the Hibbertian Collection, in 1800, by Mr.
Niven, from the Cape. It is a tender green-house plant, grows to the
height of eighteen inches, very bushy, and covers itself with flowers
about July; in which month, 1803, our drawing was taken. It has hitherto
put the ability of Mr. Allen, which is not often the case, to a stand
for a method to propagate it; but we have hopes, as most of the species
do, that it will ripen its seeds in this country.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLIV.

GERANIUM REVOLUTUM.

_Reflex floral-leaved Geranium._


CLASS XVI. ORDER IV.

_MONADELPHIA DECANDRIA._ Threads united. Ten Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

MONOGYNA. Stigmata quinque. Fructus rostratus; pentacoccus.

ONE POINTAL. Five Summits. Fruit furnished with long awns; five dry
berries.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Geranium foliis cordatis, obtusis, nervosis, sæpe auriculatis;
pedunculis multifloris; involucris polyphyllis, foliolis revolutis;
floribus pentandris; radice tuberosa.

Geranium with heart-shaped leaves, obtuse, nerved and often eared;
flower-stems many-flowered; fence many-leaved, leaflets rolled back;
flowers with five fertile chives; root tuberous.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Empalement cut open to shew its tubular structure.

2. The Chives and Pointal.

3. The Chives, spread open, magnified.

4. The Pointal, magnified.

This very fine Geranium is, as yet, only in the Clapham Collection; it
has no properties, which regard its culture or propagation, differing
from the rest of its congeners; was sent from the Cape, by Mr. Niven, in
1800. Flowers in July. The leaves of this species have most affinity, in
appearance, to those of G. melananthum, particularly in being like them
frequently eared, and even sometimes winged. We have named it,
specifically, from the singular revolute character of the involucrum, at
the base of each bunch of flowers.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLV.

LEEA PINNATA.

_Winged-leaved Leea._


CLASS V. ORDER I.

_PENTANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Five Chives. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium monophyllum, campanulatum, coriaceum,
quinquedentatum, persistens.

COROLLA monopetala; tubus longitudine calycis; limbus quinquefidus,
æqualis; laciniis saccatis.

_Nectarium_ basi interioris corollæ adnatum, corolla dimidio brevius,
erectum, urceolatum, quinquefidum; lobis emarginatis.

STAMINA. Filamenta quinque, inserta basi exteriori nectarii. Antheræ
ovatæ, versatiles.

PISTILLUM. Germen subglobosum. Stylus simplex, nectario brevior. Stigma
obtusum.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca orbiculata, depressa, quinquelocularis.

SEMINA quinque, solitaria.

EMPALEMENT. Cup one leaf, bell-shaped, leathery, five-toothed,
remaining.

BLOSSOM one petal; tube the length of the cup; border five-cleft, equal;
segments bagged.

_Honey-cup_ fixed to the base of the inside of the blossom, by the half
shorter than the blossom, erect, pitcher-shaped, five-cleft; lobes
notched at the end.

CHIVES. Five threads inserted into the outside of the base of the
honey-cup. Tips egg-shaped, versatile.

POINTAL. Seed-bud almost globular. Shaft simple, shorter than the
honey-cup. Summit blunt.

SEED-VESSEL. Berry orbicular, flattened, five-celled.

SEEDS five, solitary.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Leea foliis impari-pinnatis, oppositis; caule tereti, glabro; racemis
angulatis, angulis undulatis.

Leea with winged leaves terminated by an odd one and opposite; stem
round and smooth; branches angled; angles waved.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The Cup, natural size.

2. A Blossom.

3. A Flower complete, magnified.

4. The Honey-cup, shewn from the inside, cut open, a little magnified.

5. A Blossom, with the Honey-cup and Chives, magnified.

6. The Honey-cup and Chives shewn from the outside, magnified.

7. The Pointal, magnified.

Leea and Aquilicia have, of late, been considered as not possessing
sufficient essentially differing characters to constitute two genera,
and Aquilicia has been lost in Leea. Our present subject is a species of
the former Aquilicias, is mentioned by Gaertner, who says, it approaches
A. sambucina, now Leea sambucina; to which indeed it has much
resemblance, but differs in having opposite, not alternate branches,
being scentless, having the leaves rather rough and the stem smooth. It
is a native of the East Indies, requiring the tan-bed to make it flower;
is half shrubby, and is increased by cuttings. Flowers in August. Our
figure is from a specimen communicated to us by Aylmer Bourke Lambert,
Esq. who raised it from seeds received from Dr. Roxburg, in 1801, under
the name of Leea crispa: which is a native of Africa, and has been long
in most of our collections of hot house plants, but is in the highest
state of cultivation, under the care of Mr. Hoy, in that of his Grace
the Duke of Northumberland, Sion House, near Brentford.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLVI.

ARUM ORIXENSIS.

_Orixian Cuckow-pint._


CLASS XX. ORDER XI.

_GYNANDRIA POLYANDRIA._ Chives on the Pointal. Many Chives.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Spatha monophylla, maxima, oblonga, basi convoluta, apice
connivens, ventre compressa, interne colorata.

_Spadix_ clavatus, simplicissimus, spatha paulo brevior, coloratus,
inferne germinibus obvallatus, marcescens supra germina.

COROLLA nulla.

STAMINA. Filamenta nulla, nisi nectaria basi crassa, desinentia in
cirros filiformes, duorum ordinum e medio spadice egredientes. Antheræ
plurimæ, sessiles, tetragonæ, cirrhorum duplici ordine interjectæ,
spadici adnatæ.

PISTILLA. Germina plurima, basin spadicis vestientia, infra stamina
collocata, obovata. Styli nulli. Stigmata villis barbata.

PERICARPIA. Baccæ totidem, globosæ, uniloculares.

SEMINA plura, subrotunda.

EMPALEMENT. Sheath one leaf, very large, oblong, convolute at the base,
converging at the top, the belly compressed, coloured within.

_Sheathed-Fruit-stalk_ club shaped quite simple, a little shorter than
the sheath, coloured, set round with seed-buds on the lower part,
withering above the seed-buds.

BLOSSOM none.

CHIVES. Threads none except the honey-cups, which are thick at the base
and terminated in thread-shaped tendrils, issuing in two rows from the
middle of the sheathed fruit-stalk. Tips many, sitting, four sided,
fixed to the fruit-stalk, and disposed between the two rows of tendrils.

POINTALS. Seed-buds many, cloathing the base of the fruit-stalk, set
below the chives, inversely egg-shaped. Shafts none. Summits bearded
with soft hairs.

SEED-VESSELS. As many berries, globular, and one-celled.

SEEDS. Many, roundish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Arum, acule; foliis ternatis, venosis, discoloribus; spatha declinata;
flore atro-purpureo.

Cuckow-pint, stemless; leaves threefold, full of veins, two-coloured;
sheath bent downward; flower of a deep purple.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The whole flower, shewn from the front with the sheath opened, to
expose the parts of fructification.


This pretty plant is a native of the East Indies, in that country from
which it derives its specific title. It has much affinity with many
others of the Genus, which at first sight appear rather as varieties,
than meriting to be treated as species; but, in this instance, we submit
our judgment to that of Dr. Roxburg, by whom it has been introduced to
us under the name it here bears, in the year 1802. Our figure was taken,
in the month of October 1803, from a plant in the collection of J. Vere,
Esq. Kensington Gore. The flower is scentless.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLVII.

ARCTOTIS PARADOXA.

_Chamomile-leaved Arctotis._


CLASS XIX. ORDER IV.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA NECESSARIA._ Tips united. Necessary Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX _communis_ subrotundus, imbricatus; squamis inferioribus
laxioribus, subulatis; mediis ovatis; intimis oblongis; apice scarioso,
rotundato, concavo.

COROLLA _composita_ radiata; corollulæ hermaphroditæ plurimæ in disco.
Femininæ ligulatæ, fere viginti, disci diametro longiores.

_Propria_ hermaphroditis infundibuliformis; limbo quinquefido, apicibus
reflexis, æqualibus.

_Femineis_ ligulata, lanceolata, tenuissime tridentata, tubo brevissimo.

STAMINA hermaphroditis; filamenta quinque, capillaria, brevissima.
Anthera cylindracea, quinquedentata, longitudine corollulæ.

PISTILLUM _Hermaphroditis_; germen vix manifestum. Stylus cylindraceus,
corolla paulo longior. Stigma simplex.

_Femineis_ germen ovato-tetragonum, villosum, coronatum calyculo
proprio. Stylus filiformis. Stigmata duo, ovata-oblonga, crassiuscula,
erecta.

PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx immutatus. Semina _Hermaphroditis_ nulla.

_Femineis_ solitaria, subrotunda, villosa. _Pappus_ perianthium proprium
pentaphyllum; foliolis ovatis, patentibus, coronatus perianthii proprii
foliolis ovatis in orbem positis.

RECEPTACULUM pilosum seu paleaceum, planiusculum.

EMPALEMENT _common_ roundish, tiled; lower scales more loose, awl
shaped; middle ones egg-shaped; innermost oblong; harsh, rounded,
concave at the point.

BLOSSOM _compound_ raied; hermaphrodite florets numerous in the center.
Of the Females tongue-shaped, nearly twenty, longer than the diameter of
the center.

_Proper_ of the _hermaphrodites_ funnel-shaped; border five-cleft, ends
reflexed, equal.

Of the _Females_ tongue-shaped, lance-shaped, slightly three-toothed;
tube very short.

CHIVES of the Hermaphrodites; five threads hair-like, very short. Tip
cylindric five-toothed, the length of the floret.

POINTAL of the _Hermaphrodites_; seed-bud scarce visible. Shaft
cylindric, a little longer than the blossom. Summit simple.

Of the _Females_ seed-bud egg-shaped four-cornered, hairy, crowned by
its proper cup. Shaft thread-shaped. Summits two, oblong-egg-shaped,
thickish, upright.

SEED-VESSEL none. Empalement unchanged. Seeds in the _Hermaphrodites_
none.

In the _Females_ solitary roundish, hairy. _Feather_, proper cup five
leaved; leaflets, egg-shaped, spreading, crowned by the proper cup with
the leaflets placed in a round.

RECEPTACLE hairy or chaffy, flattish.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Arctotis flosculis radiantibus sterilibus; paleis disco longioribus
coloratis; foliis bipinnatis, linearibus.

Arctotis with the florets of the circumference sterile; chaffs coloured
and longer than the florets of the center; leaves doubly winged; linear.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. An inner Scale of the cup.

2. An outer Scale of the cup.

3. A Petal of the circumference, with its tubular base, which is
sterile.

4. A chalky division of the florets of the center, magnified.

5. A Female floret of the center, magnified.

6. The Chives of an Hermaphrodite floret, spread open and magnified.

7. The Pointal of an Hermaphrodite floret, natural size.

8. The same, magnified.

9. The Seed-bud of a female floret, natural size, with its feather.

10. The same, magnified.

Of all the plants, numerous as they are, composing this natural Class,
we know of no one, the Virgilia (a native of Peru, and introduced to us
from the Paris gardens by Mons. Thoin, about twenty years ago, but since
lost to Europe,) excepted, which can rival our present subject. It is a
native of the Cape of Good Hope, and is said, in the Kew Catalogue, to
have been introduced to that collection, in 1774, by Mr. Masson. Whether
this is the A. paradoxa of Linn. Sp. 1307. Vol. II, we are not certain,
as the chaff, dividing the florets, is there described as of nearly the
length of the ray, giving the flower an appearance of doubleness, and is
there likewise marked as an annual. But, there is little doubt of its
being the plant intended in the Kew Catalogue, under our title; it is
there made biennial, which is its true character, as it does not flower
the first year from seeds. It may be propagated by cuttings of the first
year’s growth; delights in a light sandy loam, and flowers in July or
August. Our drawing was made in 1802, from a plant in the Hibertian
Collection; which had been raised from seeds, sent the preceding year,
from the Cape, by Mr. Niven.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLVIII.

AMARYLLIS BRASILIENSIS.

_Brasilian Lily-Daffodil._


CLASS VI. ORDER I.

_HEXANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ Six Chives. One Pointal.


ESSENTIAL GENERIC CHARACTER.

COROLLA 6-petala, campanulata, Stigma trifidum.

BLOSSOM 6-petalled, bell-shaped. Summit three-cleft.

See AMARYLLIS RADIATA, Pl. XCV. Vol. II.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Amaryllis, spatha bi-seu-triflora; petalis ovato-acuminatis, æqualibus,
costatis, ad basin albidis, patentibus; genitalibus declinatis; foliis
lineari-lanceolatis, acutis.

Lily-Daffodil, sheath two or three flowered; petals egg-shape tapered,
equal, ribbed, white at the base and spreading; parts of fructification
bent downwards; leaves linear-lance-shaped, pointed.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A petal with its Chive.

2. The Seed-bud, with part of the tube of the Blossom and partial
Fruit-stalk.


This fine Lily, from the Brazils, can scarcely be thought more than a
variety of A. Reginæ; to which plant, both this, and the A. equestris of
Mr. Curtis, may be referred without much flexion of the original
species. We have, however, preserved the title under which it has been
known since its introduction; which was, in the year 1798, by the late
Marchioness of Bute, from Spain. Our drawing was taken from a plant in
the collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore, in the month of
October, 1803. It has all the merits of the most easily cultivated
species of the genus; increasing freely by the bulb, growing with
luxuriance in almost any earth, and requiring but little heat to make it
flower.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLIX.

TAGETES LUCIDA.

_Sweet Chili Marygold._


CLASS XIX. ORDER II.

_SYNGENESIA POLYGAMIA SUPERFLUA._ Tips united. Superfluous Pointals.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX _communis_ simplicissimus, monophyllus, tubulosus, oblongus,
pentagonus, quinquedentatus.

COROLLA _composita_ radiata; corollulæ hermaphroditæ tubulosæ, plures in
disco elevato; femineæ ligulatæ quinque in radio.

_Propria hermaphroditis_ tubulosa, semiquinquefida, erecta, calyce
longior; laciniis linearibus, introrsum villosis.

_Femineis_ ligulata, hermaphrodites longior, longitudine et latitudine
fere æqualis, obtusissima, versus tubum angustior, tomentosa persistens.

STAMINA Hermaphroditis; filamenta quinque, capillaria, brevissima.
Anthera cylindracea, tubulosa.

PISTILLUM _Hermaphroditis_; Germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis,
longitudine staminum. Stigma bifidum, tenue, reflexum.

_Femineis_; germen oblongum. Stylus filiformis, longitudine
hermaphroditis. Stigma bifidum, tenue, reflexum.

PERICARPIUM nullum. Calyx immutatus.

SEMINA Hermaphroditis solitaria, linearia, compressa, calyce paulo
breviora. Pappus aristis quinque, erectis, acuminatis, inæqualibus.

_Femineis_ similima hermaphrodites.

RECEPTACULUM nudum, planum.

EMPALEMENT _common_, quite simple, one leaf, tubular, oblong,
five-sided, five-toothed.

BLOSSOM, _compound_ raised; hermaphrodite florets tubular, numerous in
an elevated center; females tongue-shaped five in the circumference.

_Proper_ of the _Hermaphrodites_, tubular, half five-cleft, upright,
longer than the cup; segments linear, hairy within.

Of the _Females_ tongue-shaped longer than the hermaphrodites, of nearly
the same length and breadth, very blunt, narrower towards the tube,
downy, remaining.

CHIVES of the Hermaphrodites; five threads, hair-like, very short. Tip
cylindric, tubular.

POINTAL of the _Hermaphrodites_; seed-bud oblong. Shaft thread-shaped,
the length of the chives. Summit two-cleft, slender, reflexed.

Of the _Females_; seed-bud oblong. Shaft thread-shaped, the length of
the hermaphrodite. Summit two-cleft, slender, reflexed.

SEED-VESSEL none. Cup unchanged.

SEEDS of the Hermaphrodites solitary, linear, flat, a little shorter
than the cup. Feather five awns, upright, tapered, unequal.

Of the _Females_ like the hermaphrodites.

RECEPTACLE naked, flat.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Tagetes caule herbaceo, erecto, floribus cymosis, parvis, luteis,
odoratissimis.

Marygold with an upright, herbaceous stem; flowers in tufts, small,
yellow, and very sweet scented.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. The common Empalement.

2. A Floret of the circumference, with its seed-bud and pointal.

3. The same, magnified.

4. A Floret of the center, natural size.

5. The same, magnified.

6. A ripe seed, magnified.

This plant is a native of Chili, South America, and was sent to England
by Dr. Ortega, from the Royal Gardens, Madrid, to the late Marchioness
of Bute; who first raised it from seeds in the year 1798. It is
perfectly herbaceous, but will flower the first year from the seed; will
endure moderate frost, and may be considered as a hardy herbaceous
plant. Is increased either by seeds, or by parting the roots; delights
in a moderately stiff soil; flowering from July till November. If kept
in a pot, the flowers, which are very fragrant, will continue in
succession through the whole winter.

Tagetes minuta of Linnæus’s Sp. Plant. Vol. II. p. 1250, quoted from his
Hortus Cliffortianus, and Dillenius’s Hortus Elthamensis, seems much
affined to this plant; but, as that is annual, this cannot be considered
as a variety of it.

Our drawing was taken at the Hammersmith Nursery.

[Illustration]




PLATE CCCLX.

RENEALMIA NUTANS.

_Drooping-flowered Renealmia._


CLASS I. ORDER I.

_MONANDRIA MONOGYNIA._ One Chive. One Pointal.


GENERIC CHARACTER.

CALYX. Perianthium superum, monophyllum, apice rumpens in duo seu tres
dentes irregulares.

COROLLA monopetala. Tubus rectus, cylindricus; limbus trifidus; laciniis
duabus superioribus oblongis, rotundatis, æqualibus; inferiore
superioribus vix longiore, canaliculata, oblonga.

_Nectarium_ tubo corrollæ adnatum, sub laciniis superioribus adscendens,
rectum, longitudine corollæ, oblongum, basi utrinque unidentatum, tum
sinu excavate, apice dilatatum et obtuse trilobatum.

STAMEN. Filamentum nullum. Anthera unica, fauci tubi inserta, in sinu
laciniæ inferioris corollæ, nectario opposita, libera, recta, linearis,
emarginata, interius sulco exarata, longitudine et latitudine laciniæ
corollæ.

PISTILLUM. Germen inferum, oblongum, obsolete triquetrum, glabrum.
Stylus filiformis, glaberrimus, erectus, longitudine corollæ. Stigma
peltatum; capitulo plano; latere ad nectarium vergente truncato,
perforato, foramine in stylum decurrente.

PERICARPIUM. Bacca oblonga, trisulca, teres, glabra, umbilico terminata;
carnosa, in medio trilocularis. Loculamenta mollia, membranacea.

SEMINA plurima, oblonga, truncata, tetragona, glaberrima.

EMPALEMENT. Cup above, one-leafed, breaking open into two or three
irregular teeth.

BLOSSOM on petal. Tube straight, cylindrical; border three-cleft; the
two upper segments oblong, rounded, equal; the lower one, scarcely
longer than the upper ones, channelled, oblong.

_Honey cup_ fixed to the tube of the blossom, ascending beneath the
upper segment straight the length of the blossom, oblong one-toothed on
each side of the base, then with a hollow bosom widening at the end and
obtusely three-lobed.

CHIVE. Thread, none. Tip one inserted into the throat of the tube, in
the bosom of the lower segment of the blossom, opposite to the
honey-cup, free, straight, linear, notched at the end, grooved on the
inside, of the same length and breadth as the segment of the blossom.

POINTAL. Seed-bud beneath, oblong, obscurely three sided, smooth. Shaft
thread-shaped, very smooth, upright the length of the blossom. Summit
shield-shaped; with a flat head, the side fronting the honey-cup
appearing cut off, perforated by a hole running into the shaft.

SEED VESSEL. Berry oblong, three-furrowed, cylindrical, smooth,
terminated by a navel, fleshy in the middle, three-celled. Cells soft,
skinny.

SEEDS numerous, oblong, appearing cutoff, four-cornered, very smooth.


SPECIFIC CHARACTER.

Renealmia foliis vaginantibus; floribus racemosis terminalibus pendulis;
fructu piloso.

Renealmia with sheathing leaves; flowers in bunches terminating the
branches, hanging down, fruit hairy.


REFERENCE TO THE PLATE.

1. A miniature representation of the plant.

2. The outer sheath of the blossom.

3. A flower complete.

4. The Honey cup.

5. The Chive, Pointal, and Seed-bud.

6. The Pointal and Seed-bud cleared of the small inner sheath which
surrounds the base of the chive and shaft; with the summit detached and
magnified.

7. One of the small corpusculæ which embrace the base of the shaft,
magnified.

8. The small sheath which crowns the seed-bud, magnified.

9. The Seed-bud, cut transversely, magnified.

Amongst the numerous new plants introduced from China by the late Mr.
Slater, of Laytonstone, in the year 1793, this is certainly to be
considered as amongst the most beautiful. The only drawback to its
general merit, as a hot-house plant, is the great height to which it
might attain before it flowers; being in common fourteen or fifteen
feet. It propagates by offsets, and is kept with little trouble; as it
will flourish in almost any soil, and will flower, if set in any part of
the hot-house, so as not to interrupt its growth, the blossoms being
produced only from the summit. Although with us the stem is permanent,
as with some others of the same natural habit, yet it cannot, we think,
with propriety be considered as either a tree or shrub, but rather
herbaceous. Some contention, at first, arose whether this plant should
be referred to the present Genus; which was formed, by the younger
Linnæus, from a plant a native of Surinam, S. America, some of the parts
not exactly corresponding, especially the fruit; we have nevertheless
made no scruple in placing it to that Genus, with which, upon an
inspection of the dissections, it will be found very well to accord. Our
figure was taken from a plant which flowers, annually, in the month of
July, in the Collection of J. Vere, Esq. Kensington Gore.

[Illustration]




INDEX

TO THE PLANTS CONTAINED IN VOL. V.


Plate
289  Protea cordata                        Heart-shape-leaved Protea                   G. H.  Shrub.  March.
290  Aponogeton distachyon                 Broad-leaved Aponogeton                     H. H.  Aquat.  AllSummer
291  Senecio pseudo-China                  China-root Groundsel                        H. H.  Herb.   July.
292  Geranium undulatum                    Waved-flowered Geranium                     G. H.  Herb.   June.
293  Lachnæa purpurea                      Purple-flowered Lachnæa                     G. H.  Shrub.  July.
294  Protea candicans                      Hoary-leaved Protea                         G. H.  Shrub.  August.
295  Passiflora aurantia                   Norfolk Island Passion-Flower               G. H.  Shrub.  July.
296  Lachenalia rosea                      Rose-coloured Lachenalia                    G. H.  Bulb.   May.
297  Nymphæa odorata                       Sweet-scented Water-Lily                    H. H.  Aquat.  AllSummer
298  Anthericum costatum                   Ribbed-leaved Anthericum                    G. H.  Bulb.   August.
299  Lachenalia reflexa                    Reflexed-flowered Lachenalia                G. H.  Bulb.   June.
300  Geranium oxalidifolium                Wood-Sorrel-leaved Geranium                 G. H.  Herb.   July.
301  Protea grandiflora. _Var. fol. und._  Large-flowered Protea. _Waved-leaved Var._  G. H.  Shrub.  May.
302  Lachenalia fragrans                   Sweet-scented Lachenalia                    G. H.  Bulb.   March.
303  Geranium barbatum                     Bearded-leaved Geranium                     G. H.  Herb.   July.
304  Daviesia ulicifolia                   Furze-leaved Daviesia                       G. H.  Shrub.  May.
305  Geranium coronillæfolium              Coronilla-leaved Geranium                   G. H.  Herb.   July.
306  Aletris fragrans                      Sweet-scented Aletris                       H. H.  Shrub.  May.
307  Protea globosa                        Globe-flowered Protea                       G. H.  Shrub.  May.
308  Crotolaria verrucosa                  Blue-flowered Crotolaria                    H. H.  Ann.    May.
309  Pultenæa villosa                      Hairy Pultenæa                              G. H.  Shrub.  June.
310  Stachys coccinea                      Scarlet Clownheal                           G. H.  Herb.   July.
311  Geranium pinnatum                     Winged-leaved Geranium                      G. H.  Herb.   May.
312  Styphelia viridis                     Green-flowered Styphelia                    G. H.  Shrub.  April.
313  Justicia lucida                       Shining-leaved Justicia                     H. H.  Shrub.  August.
314  Itea spinosa                          Thorny Tea                                  G. H.  Shrub.  September.
315  Orchis bicornis                       Two-horned Orchis                           H. H.  Herb.   September.
316  Olea apetala                          Petalless Olive                             G. H.  Shrub.  March.
317  Geranium undulatum. _Minor_           Waved-flowered Geranium. _Lesser Var._      G. H.  Herb.   July.
318  Hæmanthus multiflorus                 Many-flowered Blood-Flower                  H. H.  Bulb.   June.
319  Vicia galegifolia                     Goat’s-Rue-leaved Vetch                     G. H.  Herb.   August.
320  Pultenæa elicifolia                   Holly-leaved Pultenæa                       G. H.  Shrub.  June.
321  Arethusa plicata                      Plaited-leaved Arethusa                     H. H.  Herb.   July.
322  Pitcairnia latifolia                  Broad-leaved Pitcairnia                     H. H.  Herb.   July.
323  Geranium barbatum. _Var. Minor._      Bearded-leaved Geranium. _Lesser Var._      G. H.  Herb.   July.
324  Magnolia purpurea                     Purple-flowered Magnolia                    H. H.  Shrub.  June.
325  Codon Royeni                          Prickly Codon                               G. H.  Bienn.  August.
326  Pharnaceum lineare. _Fl. alb._        Linear-leaved Pharnaceum                    G. H.  Shrub.  July.
327  Xeranthemum argenteum                 Silvery Everlasting-Flower                  G. H.  Shrub.  April.
328  Geranium bubonifolium                 Macedonian-Parsley-leaved Geranium          G. H.  Herb.   June.
329  Pharnaceum lineare                    Linear-leaved Pharnaceum. _White Var._      G. H.  Shrub.  July.
330  Nymphæa stellata                      Starr’d Water-Lily                          H. H.  Aquat.  August.
331  Xylophylla falcata                    Cymitar-shaped-leaved Xylophylla            H. H.  Shrub.  August.
332  Protea anemonifolia                   Anemony-leaved Protea                       G. H.  Shrub.  August.
333  Sagittaria lancifolia                 Lance-leaved Arrowhead                      H. H.  Aquat.  July.
334  Struthiola tomentosa                  Downy-leaved Struthiola                     G. H.  Shrub.  August.
335  Gladiolus pyramidatus                 Pyramidal-spiked Gladiolus                  G. H.  Bulb.   August.
336  Anchusa capensis                      Cape Alkanet                                G. H.  Shrub.  July.
337  Protea triternata                     Cluster-headed Protea                       G. H.  Shrub.  July.
338  Geranium coronopifolium               Buck’s-horn-leaved Geranium                 G. H.  Bienn.  August.
339  Lobelia coronopifolia                 Buck’s-horn-leaved Lobelia                  G. H.  Bienn.  August.
340  Lobelia gracilis                      Slender-stemed Lobelia                      G. H.  Ann.    August.
341  Phaseolus Caracalla                   Snail-Flower Kidney-Bean                    H. H.  Shrub.  August.
342  Cobbea scandens                       Climbing Cobbea                             G. H.  Shrub.  October.
343  Blandfordia cordata                   Heart-shape-leaved Blandfordia              G. H.  Herb.   June.
344  Epidendrum ensifolium                 Sword-shaped-leaved Epidendrum              H. H.  Shrub.  September.
345  Hyacinthus corymbosus                 Linear-leaved Cape-Hyacinth                 G. H.  Bulb.   October.
346  Casuarina stricta                     Upright Casuarina                           G. H.  Shrub.  November.
347  Sophora capensis                      Vetch-leaved Sophora                        G. H.  Shrub.  August.
348  Schotia speciosa                      Lentiscus-leaved Schotia                    H. H.  Shrub.  October.
349  Protea decumbens                      Slender-stemed Protea                       G. H.  Shrub.  July.
350  Lachenalia pustulata                  Rough-leaved Lachenalia                     G. H.  Bulb.   December.
351  Pultenæa rubiæfolia                   Madder-leaved Pultenæa                      G. H.  Shrub.  July.
352  Helonias bullata                      Spear-leaved Helonias                       Har.   Herb.   June.
353  Aspalathus crassifolius               Thick-leaved Aspalathus                     G. H.  Shrub.  July.
354  Geranium revolutum                    Reflex floral-leaved Geranium               G. H.  Herb.  July.
355  Leea pinnata                          Winged-leaved Leea                          H. H.  Herb.  August.
356  Arum orixensis                        Orixian Cuckow-pint                         H. H.  Herb.  October.
357  Arctotis paradoxa                     Chamomile-leaved Arctotis                   G. H.  Bienn.  August.
358  Amaryllis brasiliensis                Brasilian Lily-Daffodil                     H. H.  Bulb.  October.
359  Tagetes lucida                        Sweet Chili Marygold                        G. H.  Herb.  August.
360  Renealmia nutans                      Drooping-flowered Renealmia                 H. H.  Herb.  July.




ERRATA.


Plate
297, Class. Pro Poliandria, lege, _Polyandria_.
299, Sp. Ch. lin. 2. pro eqalis, lege, _æqualis_.
301, Sp. Ch. lin. ntt. pro cristitatæ, lege, _cristatæ_.
309, Ess. Gen. Ch. lin. 1, pro quinquedentatis, lege, _quinquedentatus_.
310, Plate, for Stæches, read, Stachys. Calyx lin. 3, pro dentriculis, lege, _denticulis_.
313, Pointal. lin. 1, put (.) after top-shaped.
314, Pericarpium, lin. 2, pro muconato, lege, _mucronato_.
316, Title, for Petal-less, read, _Petalless_.
323, Sp. Ch. lin. 1, post, inequaliter, dele (,)
325, Calyx, lin. 2, pro duodecem, lege, _duodecim_. Description, lin. 2, for, vegetating, read, vegitating.
326, Sp. Ch. pro inequalibus, lege, _inæqualibus_.
329, Essen. Ch. lin. 3, direction for V. V. put _Vol. V_.
331, Gen. Ch. Pointal, lin. 2, after _three_, for, short, read, _spreading, two-cleft_.
337, Sp. Ch. lin. 3, pro bracteis, lege, _bracteatis_.
341, Plate, for Phaseolis, read, _Phaseolus_.
342, Descrip. lin. 4, for, East Indies, read, _Chili, South America_.
345, Plate, for, Corymbosa, read, _Corymbosus_.
346, Descrip. lin. 8, for, has, like this, read, _have like this_.
347, Chives, lin. 2, after, length of, leave out (,)
350, Essen. Ch. lin. 1, dele, _petalis tribus infera_.
353, Title, pro crassifolius, lege, _crassifolia_.




_Alphabetical Index to the 1st. 2d. 3d. 4th. and 5th. Volume of the
Botanist’s Repository._


                               Pl. vol
Aizoon canariense              201  3
Aletris fragrans               306  5
    sarmentosa                  54  1
Allium gracile                 107  2
Amaryllis Brasilienis          358  5
    Fothergillia               163  3
    radiata                     95  2
    reticulata                 179  3
Anchusa capensis               336  5
Anemone palmata                172  3
Anthericum costatum            298  5
Anthillis erinacea              15  1
Antholyza Æthiopica            210  3
    fulgens                    192  3
    ringens                     32  1
    spicata                     56  1
    tubulosa                   174  3
Aponogeton distachyon          290  5
Arctotis paradoxa              357  5
Arethusa plicata               321  5
Aristea cyanea                  10  1
    major                      160  3
Arum orixensis                 356  5
Asclepias gigantea             271  4
Aspalathus crassifolius        353  5
Aster dentatus                  61  1
    reflexus                    93  2
Atragene Austriaca              80  3
    capensis                     9  1
Azalea Pontica                  16  1
Banksia ericafolia             156  3
    præmorsa                   258  4
    serrata                     82  2
Baurea rubioides               198  3
Bignonia Leucoxylon             43  1
    pandorana                   86  2
Blandfordia cordata            343  5
Borbonia cordata                31  1
Boronia pinnata                 58  1
Brunsfelsia undulata           167  3
Buchnera fœtida                 80  2
    pedunculata                 84  2
Camellia japonica, _alb. pl._   25  1
    japonica _pl. vg. to._      91  2
    japonica _rub. pl._        199  3
Carneraria latifolia           201  4
Casuarina stricta              346  5
Cerbera Ahouai                 231  4
    undulata    a              130  2
Chelone campanuloides           40  1
    Ruelloides                  34  1
Chiococca racemosa             284  4
Chrysanthemum tricolor         109  2
Cineraria aurita                24  1
Clematis viorna                 71  1
Clusia flava                   223  4
Cobbea scandens                342  5
Codon Royeni                   325  5
Cordia sebestena               157  3
Cortusa Mathioli                 1  1
Corræa alba                     17  1
Crassula odoratissima           26  1
Crateva Capparoides            176  3
Crinum giganteum               169  3
    spirale                     92  2
Crowea saligna                  79  2
Crotolaria verrucosa           308  5
Cyanella capensis              141  2
Cyrtanthus obliquus            265  4
Cytisus tomentosus             237  4
Daphne Pontica                  73  2
Daviesia ulicifolia            304  5
Diosma latifolia                33  1
Dodonæa triquetra              230  4
Dracena borealis               206  3
Echites suberecta              187  3
Echium argenteum               154  3
    ferocissimum                39  1
    glaucophyllum              165  3
    grandiflorum                20  1
Embothrium buxifolium          218  4
    lineare                    272  4
    salignum                   215  3
    sericeum                   100  2
Epidendrum cochleatum           13  1
    ensifolium                 344  5
    sinense                    216  3
Epigæa repens                  102  2
Eranthemum pulchellum           88  2
Falkia repens                  257  4
Ferraria pavonia               178  3
    viridiflora                285  4
Fuchsia lycioides              120  2
Galaxia grandiflora            164  3
    ovata                       94  2
Gardenia tubiflora             183  3
Gaultheria procumbens          116  2
Gentiana purpurea              117  2
Geranium astragalifolium       190  3
    barbatum                   303  5
    barbatum minor             323  5
    bubonifolium               328  5
    ciliatum                   247  4
    coronillæfolium            305  5
    coronopifolium             338  5
    cortusæfolium              121  2
    crassifolium               136  2
    echinatum                  158  3
    elegans                     28  1
    fragile                     37  1
    grandiflorum                12  1
    incisum                     67  1
    incrassatum                246  4
    laciniatum                 131  2
        flo. purp.             204  3
        bicolor                269  4
    lineare                    193  3
    melananthum                209  3
    oxalidifolium              300  5
    pictum                     168  3
    pilosum                    259  4
    pinnatum                   311  5
    præmorsum                  150  3
    procumbens                 254  4
    punctatum                   60  1
    quinquevulnerum            114  2
    radiatum                   222  4
    reflexum                   224  4
    reniforme                  108  2
    revolutum                  354  5
    roseum                     173  3
    selinum                    239  4
    spathulatum                152  3
        curviflo.              282  4
    tomentosum                 115  2
    undulatum                  292  5
        minor                  317  5
Gladiolus alatus                 8  1
    abreviatus                 166  3
    blandas                     99  2
    campanulatus               188  3
    carneus                    240  4
    crispus                    142  2
    cuspidatus                 147  3
        pet. crisp.            219  4
    galeatus                   122  2
    gramineus                   62  1
    grandiflorus               118  2
    longiflorus                  5  1
    nanus                      137  2
    orchidiflorus              241  4
    plicatus                   268  4
    polystachius                66  4
    præcox flo. rub.            38  1
    pyramidatus                335  5
    ringens cin. odor.          27  1
        multiflo.              227  4
        undul.                 275  4
    roseus                      11  1
    striatus                   111  2
    versicolor                  19  1
Gloriosa superba               129  2
Gnidia lævigata                 89  2
    opposætifolia              225  4
    pinifolia                   52  1
    simplex                     70  1
Goodenia calendulacea           22  1
    ovata                       68  1
Hæmanthus multiflorus          318  5
Hebenstreitia aurea            252  4
Heliconia psittacorum          124  2
Helonias bullata               352  5
Hemerocallis alba              194  3
    cærulea                      6  1
    graminea                   244  4
Hermannia pulverata            161  3
Hibbertia volubilis            126  2
Hibiscus mutabilis fl. pl.     228  4
    Patersonius                286  4
Hillia longiflora              145  3
Houstonia coccinea             106  2
Hyacinthus corymbosus          345  5
Hypoxis linearis               171  3
    obliqua                    195  3
    stellata                   101  2
        fl. alb.               236  4
Iris longifolia                 45  1
Itea spinosa                   314  5
Ixia aristata                   87  2
    bulbifera                   48  1
    bulbocodium                170  3
    capitata ovat.              68  1
        fl. aur.                50  1
        fl. al. fun. nig.      159  3
        stellata               232  4
    cinnamonea                  44  1
    columnaris                 203  3
        versic.                211  3
        latifol.               213  3
        grandiflo.             250  4
    crispifolia fl. cærul.      35  1
    crocata nig. mac.          134  2
    fistulosa                   59  1
    maculata                   196  3
        min. fl. pur.          256  4
    polystachia                155  3
        incar.                 128  2
    punctata                   177  3
    pusilla                    245  4
    reflexa                     14  1
    speciosa                   186  3
    spicata                     29  1
Ixora Pavetta virid. nig.       76  2
Jasminum gracile               127  2
Jatropha panduræfolia          267  4
Justicea lucida                313  5
Lachenalia fragrans            302  5
    pendula                     41  1
    purpureo cærul.            257  4
    pustulata                  350  5
    quadricolor                148  3
    reflexa                    299  5
    rosea                      296  5
Lachnæa eriocephala            104  2
    purpurea                   293  5
Lambertia formosa longi flor.   69  1
Laseopetalum ferrugineum       208  3
Leea pinnata                   355  5
Limonia trifoliata             143  2
Lobelia coronopifolia          339  5
    gracilis                   340  5
    pinifolia                  273  4
Magnolia fuscata               229  4
    pumila                     226  4
    purpurea                   324  5
Mahernia odorata                85  2
Malpighia crassifolia           49  1
Malva divaricata               182  3
    reflexa                    135  2
Massonia scabra                220  4
    violacea                    46  1
Melaleuca coronata             278  4
    ericæfolia                 175  3
    hypericifolia              200  3
Melanthium viride              233  4
Mesembryanthemum glabrum        57  1
Metrosidera hirsuta            281  4
Mimosa discolor                235  4
    longifolia                 207  3
    stricta                     53  1
Monsonia filia                 276  4
Moræa Northiana                255  4
    tricolor                    83  2
Musa coccinea                   47  1
Neotia speciosa                  3  1
Nymphæa cærulea                197  3
    ordorata                   297  5
    stellata                   330  5
Olea apetala                   316  5
Ophyrs lilifolia                65  1
Orchis bicornis                315  5
    ciliaris                    42  1
Ornithogalum lacteum           274  4
    odoratum                   260  4
Pæonia albiflora                64  1
Passiflora aurantia            295  5
    maliformis                 217  4
Pergularia minor               184  3
    odoratissima               185  3
Persoonia lanceolata            74  2
Persoonia latifolia            280  4
    linearis                    77  2
Pharnaceum lineare             326  5
        fl. alb.               329  5
Phaseolus Caracalla            341  5
Physalis prostrata              75  2
Pitcairnia latifolia           322  5
    sulphurea                  249  4
Pittosporum coriaceum          151  3
Platylobium lanceolatum        205  3
    ovatum                     266  4
    scolopendrum               191  3
Pogonia debilis                212  3
    glabra                     283  4
Primula Cortusoides              7  1
Protea anemonifolia            332  5
    candicans                  294  5
    cordata                    289  5
    cynaroides                 288  4
    decumbens                  349  5
    formosa                     17  1
    globosa                    307  5
    glomerata                  264  4
    grandiflora fol. und.      301  5
    lagopus                    243  4
    longifolia nigra           132  2
        ferr. purp.            133  2
        cono turb.             144  2
    pinifolia                   76  2
    pulchella                  270  4
    speciosa latifolia         110  2
        nigra                  103  2
        fol. glab.             277  4
    spicata                    234  4
    triternata                 337  5
    umbellata                  248  4
Psoralea aculeata              146  3
Pultenæa dapnoides              98  2
    ilcifolia                  320  5
    rubiæfolia                 331  5
    villosa                    309  5
Punica granatum fl. alb.        96  2
Renealmia nutans               360  5
Rhododendron Dauricum            4  1
    punctatum                   36  1
Roëlla decurrens               238  4
Sagittaria lancifolia          333  5
Samyda serrulata               202  3
Senecio pseudo China           291  5
Septas capensis                 90  2
Schotia speciosa               348  5
Sophora capensis               347  5
Sowerbia juncea                 81  2
Sprengelia incarnata             2  1
Stachys coccinea               310  5
Struthiola ciliata             149  3
        fl. rub.               139  2
    imbricata                  133  2
    ovata                      119  2
    tomentosa                  334  5
Styphelia parviflora           287  4
    triflora                    72  1
    viridis                    312  5
Tagetas lucida                 359  5
Talinum patens                 253  4
Thunbergia fragrans            123  2
Usteria scandens                63  1
Vaccinium amænum               138  2
    arctostaphyllus             30  1
    crassifolium               105  2
    dumosum                    112  2
    formosum                    97  2
    frondosum                  140  2
    parviflorum                125  2
    staminium                  263  4
    virgatum                   181  3
Verbascum ferrugineum          162  3
Vereia crenata                  21  1
Vicia galegifolia              319  5
Viola pedata                   153  3
Westeringia rosmarinacea       214  3
Wurmbea capensis β             221  4
Xeranthemum argenteum          327  5
    fasciculatum               242  4
        fl. alb.               279  4
    speciocissimum              51  1
    spirale                    262  4
Xylophylla falcata             331  5
Zinnia verticillata            189  3
    violacea                    55  1



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 73359 ***
